1 Preface
Flesh and Blood is a competitive trading card game where two heroes face off in a fight to the death. Each player starts the game with their hero, weapon, and equipment set in play. The battle is fought through the strategic use of resources, knowing when to defend, and when to go in for the kill. 
"Our mission is to bring people together in the flesh and blood through the common language of playing great games."
The rules in this document apply to any game of Flesh and Blood and supersede any previous version of the rules document for the game.
The version of this document is in the form MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH.
MAJOR revisions include complete renumbering, restructuring, and rewrites that are not compatible with previous versions of the comprehensive rules.
MINOR revisions include additions and rewording that are compatible with most references to the previous version but may also contain renumbering, restructuring, and rewrites to specific rules or sections.
PATCH revisions include formatting, style, and rewording that is completely compatible with the previous version, as well as logical corrections that may not be compatible.
The rules are presented in the form Chapter.Section.Rule and are referenced as such when referring to a particular rule in the current version. If referencing a previous version of this document, ensure that you include the version as well as the rule reference.
1 Game Concepts
1.0 General
1.0.1 The rules in this document apply to any game of Flesh and Blood.
1.0.1a If an effect directly contradicts a rule contained in this document, the effect supersedes that rule.
1.0.1b If a tournament rule contradicts a rule contained in this document or an effect, the tournament rule supersedes that rule or that effect.
1.0.2 A restriction is a rule or effect that states something cannot happen. A requirement is a rule or effect that states that something should happen if possible. An allowance is a rule or effect that states something can happen. A restriction takes precedence over any requirement or allowance, and a requirement takes precedence over any allowance, subject to [1.0.1a].
Example: "They can't defend this with equipment" is a restriction, "They must defend this with equipment they control if able" is a requirement, and "They may defend this with equipment they control" is an allowance.
Example: If one effect reads "You can't play cards from your banished zone," and another effect reads "You may play cards from your banished zone," the restriction takes precedence over the allowance and the player cannot play cards from their banished zone.
1.0.2a A restriction that states that "only" something can happen is functionally equivalent to a restriction that states everything else cannot happen.
Example: Three of a Kind has the text "you may only play cards from arsenal," which is a restriction equivalent to "you cannot play cards from anywhere other than arsenal." Even if an effect would allow you to play a card from your banished zone (an allowance), or require you to play your next card from hand (a requirement) you would not be able to play that card because of the restriction effect generated by Three of a Kind.
1.0.2b A restriction or requirement does not retroactively change the game state.
Example: Overpower is an ability with an effect that prevents its source from being defended by more than 1 action card (a restriction). If an attack is already defended by two or more action cards and then it gains overpower, none of the existing defending cards are retroactively removed from defending.
1.1 Players
1.1.1 A player is a person participating in the game.
1.1.1a To participate, a person must have a hero, a card-pool, a way to represent any tokens and counters that could be created by effects in their card-pool, a way to generate uniform random values for effects in their card-pool, a play-space for zones, and a method to record life totals.
1.1.2 A player's hero is a hero-card.[1.3.2a]
1.1.2a This document distinguishes the player as the person participating in the game and the hero as the hero card of a player.
1.1.2b A player plays the game as their hero. Card text makes no distinction between the player and their hero, identifying both identically. The term "you" refers to the player (and their hero) that is the controller of the object[1.2.1b], or the owner of the object[1.2.1a] if there is no controller. The term "opponent" refers to the player's opponent (and their hero).
Example: The Golden Son has the text "When you win a clash revealing this, create a Gold token." Because there is no controller of The Golden Son when it is revealed during a clash, the effect will only trigger if the owner of the card wins a clash revealing it, as "you" refers to the card's owner.
1.1.3 A player's card-pool is a collection of deck-cards[1.3.2c] and arena-cards.[1.3.2d] A card can only be included in a player's card-pool if the card's supertypes are a subset of their hero's supertypes.[2.11]
Example: If the hero card is Boltyn (supertypes of "Light" and "Warrior"), the card-pool can only include cards with the supertypes of "Light Warrior," "Light," "Warrior," and cards with no supertypes ("Generic").
1.1.3a If an effect allows a player to start the game with one or more cards with supertypes that are not a subset of their hero's supertypes, those cards may be included in the player's card-pool as long as they start the game as specified by the effect.[4.1.6c] Card text of meta-static abilities refers to the player's card-pool as the player's "deck."
1.1.3b A hybrid card may be included in a player's card-pool if either of the hybrid card's supertype sets is a subset of their hero's supertypes.[2.14.1b]
1.1.4 In a game, a party comprises players who win the game together.
1.1.4a A player is always considered to be in a party with themselves, including when they are the only player in that party.
Example: United We Stand has the text "… if Boltyn is in your party, create a Courage token under his control." If the player is playing as Boltyn, they would create a Courage token under their own control because they are considered to be in their own party, even if there are no other players in their party.
1.1.5 In a game, a player's opponents include all other players who are not in their party.[1.1.4]
1.1.6 Clockwise order is the order of players starting from the given player and progressing clockwise among the players when viewed from above. The next player in clockwise order is the player to the left of the given player.
1.2 Objects
1.2.1 An object is an element of the game with properties[2] and located in a zone[3] or a player's inventory.[4.1.6] Cards, attacks, macros, and layers are objects.
1.2.1a The owner of an object is the same as the card, macro, or layer that represents it, otherwise it has no owner.
1.2.1b The controller of an object is the same as the card, macro, or layer that represents it. An object does not have a controller if it is not in the arena or on the stack.
1.2.2 An object has one or more object identities that can be referred to. Rules in this document and effects typically describe objects using their object identity as the noun.
Example: Lunging Press has the text "Target attack action card gets +1{p}," which identifies the target of the effect, using the "card" object identity as the noun.
1.2.2a An object has the object identity "object."
1.2.2b An object with a name property and/or moniker has the object identity of that name and/or moniker.[2.7]
Example: Vow of Vengeance has the text "… Mark target Arakni," which identifies an object using the name "Arakni" as an object identity.
1.2.2c A card has the object identity of its traits, types, and subtypes, except for the subtype attack.
Example: Ironsong Determination has the text "Target weapon gets +1{p} and dominate until end of turn," which identifies an object using the type "weapon" as an object identity.
1.2.2d An attack-card, attack-proxy, or attack-layer has the object identity "attack."[1.4]
Example: Oath of the Arknight has the text "Your next Runeblade attack this turn gets +3{p}," which identifies either a Runeblade attack action card on the stack, or attack-proxy created by a Runeblade source, or an attacking Runeblade object; using "attack" as an object identity.
1.2.2e A card has the object identity "card."
1.2.2f A permanent has the object identity "permanent."[1.3.3]
1.2.2g An activated-layer has the object identity "activated ability."
1.2.2h A triggered-layer has the object identity "triggered effect."
1.2.3 Last known information about an object is a snapshot of the state of an object immediately before it ceased to exist.
1.2.3a If a rule or effect requires information about a specific object that no longer exists, instead it uses last known information about that object to fulfil that requirement. Otherwise, if a rule or effect does not specifically refer to that object, last known information is not used.
Example: Midas Touch has the text "Destroy target ally. Its controller creates Gold tokens equal to its cost." If  the ally is destroyed by Midas Touch, or  the ally ceases to exist before Midas Touch resolves, last known information about the targeted ally is used to determine the player that controlled the ally and the ally's cost. In both cases the controller creates gold equal to the cost.
Example: Endless Arrow has the text "When this hits, put it into its owner's hand." If Endless Arrow is put into the player's hand, the chain link of Endless Arrow then holds the last known information about the card. If the card had go again before it was put into hand, the player would still gain an action point when the chain link resolves.
1.2.3b Last known information about an object includes all parameters, history, and effects applicable to that object at the time it still existed.
1.2.3c Last known information about an object is immutable - it cannot be altered. Rules and effects that would modify the object that no longer exists do not modify the last known information about an object; this may cause effects to fail.
Example: Luminaris has the text "If there is a yellow card in your pitch zone, your Illusionist attacks get go again." If you controlled an Illusionist attack as a chain link on the combat chain, but it was removed, and then you put a yellow card in your pitch zone to meet Luminaris' condition, the chain link does not have go again because the last known information about the attack cannot be altered.
1.2.3d Last known information about an object is not an object itself - it is not a legal target for rules and effects.
1.2.4 Card and macro objects are the source of abilities, effects, non-card layers, and attack-proxies.
Example: Oasis Respite has the text "Prevent the next 4 damage that would be dealt to target hero this turn by a source of your choice." Only cards or macros can be declared as the source for Oasis Respite's effect. Any damage that would be dealt by the chosen source may be subject to the prevention effect.
1.3 Cards
1.3.1 A card is an object represented by an official Flesh and Blood card.
1.3.1a The owner of a card is the player who started the game with that card as their hero or as part of their card-pool, or the player instructed to create it or otherwise put it into the game.
1.3.1b A card does not have a controller unless it is in the arena or on the stack. The controller of a card is its owner as it enters the arena or the player who played that card.
1.3.2 There are 4 categories of cards: hero-, token-, deck-, and arena-cards.
1.3.2a A hero-card is any card with the type hero. A hero-card starts the game as a player's hero.
1.3.2b A token-card is any card with the type token. A token-card is not considered part of a player's card-pool.[1.1.3]
1.3.2c A deck-card is any card with one of the following types: Action, Attack Reaction, Block, Defense Reaction, Instant, Mentor, and Resource. A deck-card may start the game in a player's deck.
1.3.2d An arena-card is any non-hero- non-token- non-deck-card. An arena-card cannot start the game in a player's deck.
1.3.3 A permanent is a card in the arena that remains there indefinitely, or until they are destroyed, banished, or otherwise removed by an effect or game rule. Hero-cards, arena-cards, and token-cards are permanents while they are in the arena. Deck-cards become permanents when they are put into the arena (but not the combat chain) and they have one of the following subtypes: Affliction, Ally, Ash, Aura, Construct, Figment, Invocation, Item, and Landmark.[2.10]
1.3.3a If a permanent leaves the arena, it is no longer considered a permanent.
1.3.3b A permanent has one of two different states: untapped and tapped. Permanents are untapped unless a rule or effect puts them into the arena tapped, or changes their state.[8.5.55][8.5.56]
1.3.4 A card is distinct from another card if one or more of its faces has a name and/or pitch value the other card does not have.
Example: Sink Below with 1 pitch (and a red color bar) is distinct from Sink Below with 2 pitch (and a yellow color bar).
Example: The split-card Null||Shock is distinct from Vaporize||Shock because one of the names (Null) is not present on Vaporize||Shock.
1.4 Attacks
1.4.1 An attack is an object on the stack or combat chain that represents an act of combat. Attack-cards, attack-layers, and attack-proxies are attacks.
1.4.1a The owner of an attack is the same as the owner of the card or activated ability that represents it.
1.4.1b The controller of an attack is the same as the controller of the object that represents it.
1.4.2 An attack-card is a card with the subtype attack that is on the stack or that is attacking on the combat chain.
1.4.2a A card with the subtype attack is only considered an attack if it is on the stack or if it was put onto the combat chain as an attack. Otherwise, it is not considered an attack.
1.4.3 An attack-proxy is a non-card object with the attack ability[8.3.1] that represents the attack of another object (attack-source).
Example: Bone Basher has the text, "Once per Turn Action -- {r}{r}: Attack" which is an activated ability that creates an attack-proxy. The attack-proxy is a representation of Bone Basher's attack.
1.4.3a An attack-proxy is a separate object that acts as an extension of its attack-source.[1.4.3b] It can only be referenced by effects using the object identity "attack",[1.2.2] but is considered to inherit the properties of its attack-source in addition to any existing properties it has, with the exception of the activated and resolution abilities of its attack-source. An attack-proxy is not a copy of its source and does not have a copy of its source's properties.
Example: Edge of Autumn is a two-handed Ninja sword weapon with 1{p} and has the text "Once per Turn Action -- {r}: Attack. Go again." When Edge of Autumn is activated to create an attack-proxy on the stack, the attack-proxy has the base ability 'go again' and inherits the 'Edge of Autumn' name, supertype Ninja, type weapon, subtypes (2H) and sword, and the 1{p} properties from its source.
Example: Burn Them All has a base 'go again' resolution ability and an attack ability gained from Reality Refractor. When Burn Them All is activated to create an attack-proxy on the stack, the attack-proxy does not have 'go again' because it does not inherit the resolution abilities from its source.
Example: Flail of Agony has the text 'When this hits, create a Runechant token." which is a triggered static ability. When Flail of Agony is activated to create an attack-proxy, and the attack-proxy hits, only one Runechant is created because there is only one copy of the triggered static ability.
1.4.3b An attack-source is an object that is represented by an attack-proxy.
Example: Cintari Sellsword has an attack-ability, that produces an attack-proxy when activated. This attack-proxy represents the attack-source, Cintari Sellsword, during combat.
1.4.3c An attack-proxy exists as long as its attack-source exists, and as long as the attack-source is on the same chain link (if the attack-proxy is on the combat chain). If an attack-proxy is on the stack and the attack-source ceases to exist, or an attack-proxy is on the combat chain and the attack-source is not on the same chain link, the attack-proxy ceases to exist. An attack-proxy is not dependent on its attack-source having the {p} property, or the ability that created the attack-proxy.
Example: If a player attacks with a weapon, they create an attack-proxy, and the attack-proxy and the weapon (the attack-source) move to chain link 1. If the player attacks again with the same weapon during the same combat chain, a second attack-proxy is created, that attack-proxy and the weapon (on chain link 1) move to chain link 2, and the first attack-proxy ceases to exist. Last known information is used for the first attack-proxy and chain link 1.
Example: Iris of Reality has the text "… Illusionist auras you control are weapons with 4 base {p} and "Once per Turn Action -- {r}{r}{r}: Attack. Go again"." If an Illusionist aura creates an attack-proxy with this ability, then Iris of Reality ceases to exist, the attack-proxy does not cease to exist.
1.4.3d Effects that apply to the attack-source do not directly apply to its attack-proxy. If an effect applies to an attack-source and modifies its properties, the modified properties of the object are inherited by the attack-proxy. Replacement effects that modify effects that apply to attacks do not modify effects that apply to the attack-source.
Example: Ironsong Determination has the text "Target weapon gets +1{p} and dominate until end of turn," which applies to a weapon, and is inherited by any attack-proxies of that weapon. A weapon with 3{p} would be modified to have 4{p}, and its attack-proxies would also have 4{p}.
Example: Fog Down has the text "Non-attack action cards lose and can't gain go again," and Limpit, Hop-a-long is an non-attack action card. If Limpit, Hop-a-long the attack-source, its attack-proxy would not lose go again or be prevented from gaining go again, because Fog Down's effect does not transitively apply to the attack-proxy, and the attack-proxy is neither a non-attack nor a card.
Example: Thrive has the text "If an attack would gain {p} this turn, instead it gains that much plus 1." If a player resolves Thrive, attacks with a weapon, then plays an instant card that increases the {p} of the weapon, Thrive's effect would not modify the increase in power to the attack because the effect modifies the weapon and does not specifically modify the attack-proxy of the weapon.
1.4.3e Effects that reference or apply specifically to an attack-proxy do not reference or apply to its attack-source.
Example: Sharpen Steel has the text "Your next weapon attack this turn gets +3{p}," which applies only to the attack-proxy created by a weapons abilities and then applies to the weapon as an attack on the combat chain; it does not continue to apply to the weapon when the weapon is no longer that specific attack on the combat chain.
1.4.4 An attack-layer is a layer with the attack effect[8.5.38] that represents an attack with no properties on the stack.
Example: Emperor, Dracai of Aesir has the text "Action -- {r}{r}{r}: Search your deck for Command and Conquer, attack with it, then shuffle," which is an activated ability that creates an attack-layer. The attack-layer is a representation of an attack with no properties because it needs to resolve before the Command and Conquer is found.
1.4.4a An attack-layer is not an extension of its attack-source. For the purposes of effects, the attack-layer is considered to be either a typical layer or an attack with no properties, but not both.
Example: The attack-layer created by Emperor, Dracai of Aesir is considered to be either a Royal Draconic Warrior Wizard Hero activated-layer or an attack for the purposes of effects. It is not a Royal Draconic Warrior Wizard Hero activated ability attack. Uprising has the text "Your next 4 Draconic attacks this turn get +1{p}," which is a continuous effect that would not apply to this attack-layer because it is not considered a Draconic attack.
1.4.4b An attack-layer is considered a separate object from its attack-source for an effect that applies specifically to attacks. If an effect does not apply to an attack layer, it may still apply to the attack-source if it meets the specifications of the effect.
1.4.5 An attack-target is the target of an attack that is declared when the attack is put onto the stack. If a player plays or activates an attack, or adds a triggered-layer to the stack with an attack effect, the player must declare an attackable object controlled by an opponent as the attack-target.[5.1.4][6.6.6a]
1.4.5a An object is attackable if it is a living object,[2.5.1a] or if it is made attackable by an effect.
Example: The ability Spectra generates an effect that makes its source a legal target for an attack, despite it not being a living object.
1.4.5b An attack-target remains the target of the attack until the combat chain closes. The player does not have to declare the same target as a previous attack on the combat chain; declaring a different target to a previous attack does not close the combat chain.
1.4.5c If an effect modifies an attack to have multiple targets, all targets must be separate and legal to declare.
1.4.6 An attack cannot be played or activated if a rule or effect would prevent the player from attacking with that card or ability.
1.5 Macros
1.5.1 A macro is a non-card object in the arena.
Note: A macro is not a card, even if it is represented by an official Flesh and Blood card. Macros are determined by tournament rules for specific formats.
Example: Sanctuary of Aria is a macro with the text "Instant -- {r}{r}: Prevent the next 1 damage that would be dealt to you this turn by a source of your choice. Destroy this at the beginning of the end phase."
1.5.1a A macro has no owner.
1.5.1b The controller of a macro is determined by the tournament rule that created it.
1.5.2 A macro cannot be and is not considered part of a player's card-pool.[1.1.3]
1.5.3 If a macro leaves the arena, it is removed from the game.
1.6 Layers
1.6.1 A layer is an object on the stack[3.15] that is yet to be resolved. Card-layers, activated-layers, and triggered-layers are layers.
1.6.1a The owner of a card-layer is the player who owns the card. The owner of an activated-layer is the player who activated the activated ability. The owner of a triggered-layer is the player who controlled the source of the triggered effect when the triggered-layer was created.
1.6.1b The controller of a layer is the player that put it on the stack.
1.6.2 There are 3 categories of layers: card-, activated-, and triggered-layers.
1.6.2a A card-layer is a layer represented by a card on the stack.
1.6.2b An activated-layer is a layer created by an activated ability. An activated-layer is created on the stack, and then can only exist on the stack.[5.2]
Example: Energy Potion has the text "Instant – Destroy this: Gain {r}{r}," which is an activated ability. When this ability is activated, it creates an activated-layer on the stack with the resolution ability "Gain {r}{r}."
1.6.2c A triggered-layer is a layer created by a triggered effect. A triggered-layer is created before it is put on the stack, and then can only exist on the stack.[5.5]
Example: Snatch has the text "When this hits, draw a card," which is a triggered effect. When this effect is triggered, it creates a triggered-layer to be put on the stack with the resolution ability "Draw a card."
1.7 Abilities
1.7.1 An ability is a property of an object that influences the game by generating effects or by creating a layer on the stack that resolves and generates effects. The base abilities of a non-token card are determined by its rules text.[2.12] The base abilities of a token card, macro, or non-card layer are defined by a rule, or the effect or ability that created it.
1.7.1a The source of an ability is the card or token that has that ability. The source of an ability of an activated-layer or triggered-layer is the same as the source of the ability that created that layer. Activated-layers and triggered-layers exist independently of their source - if the source of an activated-layer or triggered-layer ceases to exist, it does not prevent the resolution of that layer.
1.7.1b The controller of an activated-layer is the player who activated its source. The controller of a triggered-layer is the player who controlled its source when it triggered - if the source has no controller, the controller of the triggered-layer is player who owns the source.
1.7.2 If an object has an ability as a property, it is considered a card with that ability. If the ability is a base ability, it is considered a card with that base ability.
Example: Torrent of Tempo has the text "When this hits, it gets go again." Torrent of Tempo is not a card with base go again. Until Torrent of Tempo hits, it is not a card with go again - once Torrent of Tempo hits and the triggered-layer resolves, Torrent of Tempo will be a card with go again, but still not a card with base go again.
1.7.3 There are three categories of abilities: activated abilities, resolution abilities, and static abilities. An ability is categorized based on how it generates effects.
1.7.3a Activated abilities can be activated by a player to put an activated-layer on the stack.[5.2]
1.7.3b Resolution abilities generate effects when a layer with the ability resolves on the stack.[5.3]
1.7.3c Static abilities simply generate effects.[5.4]
1.7.4 An activated ability can only be activated when it is functional. A resolution or static ability only generates its effects when it is functional. An ability is functional when its source is public and in the arena; otherwise, it is non-functional, with the following exceptions:
1.7.4a An ability of a non-permanent defending card[7.0.5] is non-functional unless the ability is an activated ability that specifies it can be activated when the card is defending, a triggered ability with a trigger condition that includes the card defending, or a static ability that is stated as an exception.
Example: Rally the Rearguard has the text "Once per Turn Instant -- Discard a card: This gets +3{d}. Activate this only while this is defending," which is functional when it is a non-permanent defending card because the activated ability states it can only be activated when the card is defending.
1.7.4b An activated ability is functional if its cost can only be paid, or it explicitly specifies it can be activated, when the source is private or outside the arena, and the source meets that condition.[5.2.4]
Example: Mighty Windup has the text "Instant -- Discard this: Create a Might token," which is functional when it is in the owner's hand because the cost can only be paid when Mighty Windup is in the owner's hand.
Example: Guardian of the Shadowrealm has the text "Action -- {r}{r}: Return this to your hand. Active this ability only while this card is in your banished zone," which is functional when it is face-up in the owner's banished zone.
1.7.4c A resolution ability is functional when its source object resolves as a layer on the stack, otherwise, it is non-functional.[5.3]
Example: Sigil of Solace has the text "Gain 3{h}," which is a resolution ability that is functional as the card resolves as a layer on the stack to produce its effect.
1.7.4d A meta-static ability is functional outside the game.[5.4.3]
Example: The Specialization keyword is a meta-static ability that prevents the player from including the card in their deck if the specialization does not match their hero card's first name, which is functional outside the game.
1.7.4e A play-static ability is functional when its source is public in any zone and when it is played.[5.4.4]
Example: Ghostly Visit has the text "You may play this from your banished zone," which is a play-static ability that is functional when playing Ghostly Visit, because it affects the rules of how it is allowed to be played.
1.7.4f A property-static ability is functional when its source is in any zone or outside the game.[5.4.5]
Example: The {p} and {d} of Mutated Mass are defined by a property-static ability which is functional at all times, based on the current total number of different costed cards in the pitch zone in the current game state.
1.7.4g A while-static ability is functional when its while-condition is met.[5.4.7]
Example: Yinti Yanti has the text "While this is defending and you control an aura, this gets +1{d}," which is a while-static ability that is functional when it is a non-permanent defending card because it has a while-condition that is met when the card is defending.
1.7.4h A static ability is functional when its source resolves as a layer on the stack and/or as its source enters the arena.
Example: Conduit of Frostburn has the text "The next card you play this turn with an effect that deals arcane damage gets 'When this deals arcane damage to a hero," which gives a card a static ability that is functional when its source resolves as a layer on the stack.
1.7.4i A triggered-static ability, with a triggered condition that its source is outside the arena, is functional when the source meets that condition.
Example: Back Alley Breakline has the text "When an activated ability or action card effect puts this face-up into a zone from your deck, gain 1 action point," which is a triggered-static ability that is functional when an activated ability or action card effect puts it into that zone from the deck.
1.7.4j A static ability, with a replacement effect that modifies the event of its source moving zones, is functional when the source meets that condition.
Example: Drone of Brutality has the text "If this would be put into your graveyard from anywhere, instead put it on the bottom of your deck," which is a static ability with a replacement effect that is functional when Drone of Brutality would be moved to the graveyard zone.
1.7.5 A modal ability is a choice of modes, where each mode is a base ability the source could have. A modal ability typically contains the phrase "choose [X] [CONDITIONS?]; [MODES]" where X is a cardinal number or a description of the number of modes to choose, CONDITIONS (if any) specifies one or more conditions for selecting modes, and MODES is a list of modes that can be selected.
1.7.5a Modes of the source are declared as the source is added as a layer on the stack.[5.1.4][6.6.6a]
1.7.5b If the modal ability allows the player to select two or more modes, they cannot select the same mode more than once, unless specified by the ability. If the player may select more modes than are available, they can only select a maximum of the available modes. If two or more modes are selected, the order of those modes are determined by the order they are listed by the ability.
Example: Art of War has the text "Choose 2;" followed by four modal options. Because the ability does not state that the player can choose the same option more than once, two distinct modes must be selected.
1.7.5c If the same mode is selected more than once, the modes are considered separate and do not create a multi-event.[1.9.2] If the mode contains a targeted effect, the same target(s) may be selected for each time the mode is selected.
Example: Blood on Her Hands has the text "Target 1H weapon gets +1{p} while attacking this turn," which is a mode that can be selected more than once. As a targeted effect, the player may target the same 1H  weapon each time it is chosen as a mode.
1.7.5d Once the modes of a modal ability have been selected, those modes determine the base abilities of the source for rules and effects. If no modes for the source have been selected it is considered to not have any of those modes as base abilities.
1.7.5e If the number or the availability of modes is affected by a conditional or an undetermined parameter, the conditional or parameter is evaluated at the time the modes are selected.
Example: Sacred Art: Undercurrent Desires has the text "If you've played another blue card this turn, choose 3. Otherwise, choose 1;" The number of modes is determined at the time Sacred Art: Undercurrent Desires is played, and the modes are selected, not when it resolves.
1.7.6 A connected ability pair is a pair of abilities where the parameters and/or events of one connected ability (leading ability) are specifically referred to by the effect(s) of the other connected ability (following ability).
Example: Reckless Swing has the text "As an additional cost to play this, discard a random card," which is a leading play-static ability that requires the player to discard a card, and "If the discarded card has 6 or more {p}, deal 2 damage to the attacking hero," which is a following resolution ability with an effect that directly refers to the card discarded from the event generated by an effect in the leading ability.
1.7.6a An ability can be part of one or more connected ability pairs. An ability can be both a leading and following ability for different connected ability pairs.
1.7.6b If a following ability cannot refer to the parameters and/or events of the leading ability, or if there are no parameters and/or events to refer to, the relevant effects of the following ability fail.
1.7.6c If an effect adds a connected ability pair (both the leading and following abilities) to an object, they are connected on that object and the added following ability will only refer to the added leading ability. If only one of the abilities is added, or both abilities are added by separate effects, then they are not connected on the object they are added to.
1.7.7 The abilities of an object can be modified.
1.8 Effects
1.8.1 An effect is generated by an ability or another effect, and can change the game state by producing events or applying changes to objects or the game itself. When a layer resolves, a static ability becomes functional, a card/ability with an alternative/additional effect-cost is played/activated, or the conditions of another effect are met, it may generate one or more discrete and/or continuous effects.
1.8.1a The source of an effect is the same as the source of the ability or effect that generated it, unless otherwise specified by the effect.
Example: Electrify has the text "The next time an attack action card hits a hero this turn, it deals 3 damage to them," which is a delayed-triggered effect that triggers to deal damage, specifying the source of the damage effect as the attack action card that caused the effect to trigger.
1.8.1b The controller of an effect is the same as the controller of the ability or effect that generated it unless otherwise specified by the effect.
1.8.2 If the abilities of an object directly generate an effect, the object is considered an object with that effect. This includes optional and conditional effects.
Example: Chain Lightning has the text "If you've played another Wizard non-attack action card this turn, deal 3 arcane damage to each opposing hero." Because the ability generates a deal (damage) effect, Chain Lightning is considered a card with an effect that deals 3 arcane damage, even though it is conditional.
Example: Blazing Aether has the text "Deal X arcane damage to target hero." Because the ability generates a deal (damage) effect, Blazing Aether is considered a card with an effect that deals X arcane damage, where X is 0 until the card resolves and X is defined.
Example: Clash of Might has the text "When this defends, clash with the attacking hero." Because the ability generates a clash effect, Clash of Might is considered a card with clash.
Example: Thunk has the text "When you win a clash revealing this, create a Might token." Because the ability does not generate a clash effect, Thunk is not considered a card with clash.
1.8.3 An optional effect is an effect that the player may choose to be generated. An optional effect typically contains the term "may."
1.8.3a When an optional effect would be generated, or would apply to objects or the game, the player instructed by the effect chooses whether or not to generate or apply the effect.
1.8.3b If any of the optional effects cannot be generated due to a rule or effect, cannot resolve successfully based on the current game state, or contain an asset-cost which cannot be paid,[1.14.2] the effect cannot be generated/applied and the player cannot choose to generate/apply the effect. If the optional effects are phrased with "may choose to" then the player may choose to generate the effects regardless of their outcome.
Example: Murky Water has the text "… you may banish face-down 3 traps from your graveyard." If the player 3 or more traps in their graveyard, they may choose whether or not to generate the effect to banish them. If they have 2 or fewer traps in their graveyard, they have no choice and the effect is not generated.
Example: Heave partially means "… you may pay {r}{r}{r} and put this face-up into your arsenal." If the player cannot pay the resource cost or they cannot put the card into their arsenal, they cannot choose to heave the card. The player must both pay the asset-cost and be able to put the card into their arsenal to be able to heave the card.
Example: Mark of the Huntsman has the text "When this hits a hero, you may choose to destroy this and mark them." Even if Mark of the Huntsman cannot be destroyed or the hero is already marked, the player may choose to generate the optional effects, in which case Mark of the Huntsman will be destroyed (if able) and the hero will be marked (if able).
1.8.4 A conditional effect is an effect that is dependent on a condition to be met. A conditional effect is typically written in the format "(If / During) [CONDITION], [EFFECT]," where CONDITION is the condition that must be met for the EFFECT to be generated/applied. If EFFECT is a list of two or more effects, each effect is a conditional effect with the same condition.
Example: Heart of Fyendal has the text "if you have less {h} than an opposing hero, gain 1{h}" which is a conditional discrete effect that is generated only if the the player has less {h} than at least one opposing hero.
Example: Flic Flak has the text "If the next card you defend with this turn is a card with combo, it gets +2{d}." which is a conditional continuous effect that is applied only if the next card the players defends with that turn has the combo ability.
Note: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "If [EVENT and/or STATE] [EFFECTS]" to denote a triggered effect.[5.5]
1.8.4a A conditional effect, written in the format "Otherwise [EFFECT]," is an effect that is conditional on the opposite of a preceding conditional effect or the failure of a preceding effect. This effect's condition is met only when the preceding effect's condition is not met, or the preceding effect fails.
Example: Runeblood Incantation has the text "At the beginning of your action phase, remove a verse counter from Runeblood Incantation. If you do, create a Runechant token. Otherwise, destroy Runeblood Incantation," the latter part of which is a conditional discrete effect that is conditional on the failure to remove a verse counter from Runeblood Incantation.
1.8.4b A conditional effect, written in the format "[EFFECT] unless [OPPCONDITION]," is an effect that is conditional on the opposite of the OPPCONDITION. This effect's condition is only met when the OPPCONDITION is not met, or the OPPCONDITION is an effect that fails.[1.8.9] If the OPPCONDITION is an effect instead of a condition, it is an optional effect.
Note: An effect that reads "Deal 2 damage to the attacking hero unless they pay {r}." can be read as "The attacking hero may pay {r}. If they don't, deal 2 damage to them."
Example: Pitfall Trap has the text "… deal 2 damage to the attacking hero unless they pay {r}," which is a conditional discrete effect, that is conditional on the attacking hero not paying the asset-cost.
1.8.4c A conditional effect, written in the format "[EFFECT] while [CONDITION]," is an effect that only applies as long as CONDITION is met. The CONDITION is evaluated at all times while the effect exists. If the effect applies to one or more subjects, CONDITION is evaluated per subject.
Example: Parable of Humility has the text "Attack action cards your opponents control get -1{p} while attacking and defending," which is a conditional static-continuous effect that applies to more than one object and a condition that is checked per object that it applies to.
1.8.4d A conditional effect, written in the format "if [CONDITION], [EFFECT], [ADDCONDITION], [ADDEFFECT] ..." is a collection of two or more effects that are only generated if the condition is met for each respective effect. Typically, the CONDITION fully specifies an amount  required to met the conditional for generating EFFECT, and each subsequent ADDCONDITION will specify a different but related amount required to met the conditional for generating its respective ADDEFFECT. The CONDITION and each subsequent ADDCONDITION are evaluated all at once before any of the effects are generated.
Example: Enflame the Firebrand has the text "if you control 2 or more Draconic chain links, this gets go again, 3 or more, your attacks are Draconic this combat chain, 4 or more, this gets +2{p}." which are 3 conditional continuous effects, that are conditional on the player controlling 2 or more, 3 or more, and 4 or more draconic chain links respectively. Even if the number of chain links increases from generation of the second effect, it would not cause the conditional to be revaluated for the third effect.
1.8.5 A targeted effect is an effect where the target parameters are declared as the layer, with an ability that generates the targeted effect, is put onto the stack. Targeted effects always contain the phrase "target [DESCRIPTION]" or "[DESCRIPTION] (target/targets)" where DESCRIPTION is the specifics of one or more legal targets for the effect.
1.8.5a Only public objects in the arena or on the stack are targetable (can be selected as a legal target), unless the effect specifies the legal target as a zone or an object that does not exist in the arena or on the stack. If the effect specifies the legal target as an object in a public zone, only public objects in that zone targetable, unless stated otherwise.
Example: Memorial Ground has the text "Put target attack action card with cost 2 or less from your graveyard on top of your deck." which describes a legal target as a card in the graveyard as opposed to a card in the arena or on the stack. The graveyard is a public zone, so only public (face-up) cards in the graveyard can be chosen as a legal target.
1.8.5b The same legal target cannot be declared more than once for any one instance of the target phrase.
1.8.5c An effect that specifies one or more subjects to affect, but does not use the term "target," is not a targeted effect. Non-target subjects do not need to be declared until the effect is generated.
Example: Remembrance has the text "Shuffle up to 3 action cards from your graveyard into your deck," which is not a targeted effect because it does not use the term "target" before the specified subjects of the effect.
1.8.5d If the targeted effect can only be applied to certain objects, the otherwise legal targets are restricted based on the requirements of the parameters for the effect.[8.5]
Example: Frosting has the text "Deal 3 arcane damage to any target." Only living objects (permanents in the arena with the life property) may be selected as targets for the deal (damage) effect.
Example: Rewind has the text "Negate target non-attack action card and return it to its owner's hand." Only layers may be selected as targets for the negate effect, so only a non-attack action card on the stack may be selected as a target for Rewind.
1.8.5e If a targeted effect is optional, the player may choose not to select a target. If a player chooses not to select a target, the optional effect is not generated.
1.8.5f If an effect modifies the target of a targeted effect, only legal targets for the targeted effect may be selected as new targets, unless otherwise specified by the modifying effect. If there is no other legal target for the targeted effect, then the target remains unmodified.
Example: Taipanis, Dracai of Judgement has the text "The first time each turn another hero becomes the target of a source that would deal lethal damage, you may discard a red card. If you do, choose new targets for that source," which can modify the targets of an effect but can only select legal targets as per the original targeted effect. Taipanis cannot change the target of a hero's attack to be their own hero, because attacks can only target opposing living objects.
1.8.6 If the parameters of an effect are undetermined at the time the effect is generated, the player instructed by the effect determines the parameters of the effect. If no legal parameters exist, then any part of the effect related to those parameters fails.
Example: Remembrance has the text "Shuffle up to 3 action cards from your graveyard into your deck." This effect does not require targets when Remembrance is played on the stack, so when the effect is generated upon resolution, up to three action cards must be determined by the controlling player.
1.8.6a If two or more players are instructed to determine the parameters of an effect, those players determine the parameters in clockwise order, starting with the controller of the effect.[1.1.6]
Example: Codex of Frailty has the text "Each hero puts an attack action card from their graveyard face-down into their arsenal," which requires all players to determine what card will be selected in their graveyard to be put into their arsenal. This starts with the player who controls Codex of Frailty as it resolves on the stack.
1.8.6b If the parameters of an effect include determining an object, the player can only determine public objects in the arena or on the stack as parameters for the effect, unless stated otherwise.[3.0.3] If the parameters of effect include determining a object in a public zone, the player can only determine public objects in that zone, unless stated otherwise.
Example: Oasis Respite has the text "Prevent the next 4 damage that would be dealt to target hero this turn by a source of your choice," which has a parameter that can be any card or macro in the arena or the stack, as long as it is public (face-up).
Example: Gravekeeping has the text "When this attacks a hero, you may banish a card from their graveyard." which has a parameter that can be any card in the hero's graveyard zone, as long the card is public (face-up).
Example: Boneyard Marauder has the text "As an additional cost to play this, banish 3 random cards from your graveyard." which has a parameter that requires the player to determine 3 random public (face-up) cards in their graveyard to be banished.
1.8.6c If the parameters of an effect include determining two or more objects, but there are insufficient legal objects, all legal objects are consider the parameters of the effect.
Example: System Reset has the text "Banish X Mechanologist items you control." If X is already determined to be 4, but there are only 3 legal items, all 3 of those items become the parameters to the banish effect.
1.8.6d If an effect would generate a multi-event, the player determines the order of the individual events after the parameters of the effect are determined.[1.9.2]
Example: Shadowrealm Horror has the text "As an additional cost to play this, banish 3 random cards in your graveyard." When the effect is generated, 3 cards at random are selected as parameters for the effect, then the player may choose the order in which those cards are banished as part of the banish multi-event.
Example: Glyph Destruction Nodes has the text "Deal 3 arcane damage to up to X target heroes and/or allies." The target parameters of the effect are declared when Glyph Destruction Nodes is put on the stack, but the order in which those targets are dealt damage is determined when the effect is generated.
1.8.7 If an effect refers to the value of a property, it infers the existence of the property as well as its value. If an object does not have that property, it does not meet the condition of the existence of the property and thus the condition of the value of the property.
Example: Harmonized Kodachi has the text "If you have a card in your pitch zone with cost 0," which can be interpreted as "While you have a card in your pitch zone with the cost property and the value of that property is 0." This means a card without the cost property, such as Heart of Fyendal, will not satisfy the condition if it is in the pitch zone.
Example: Find Center has the text "… this can't be defended by cards with cost less than the number of chain links you control,"  which can be interpreted as "this cannot be defended by cards with the cost property, if the value of the cost property is less than the number of chain links you control." This means cards without the cost property, such as Ironrot Helm, would be able to defend the attack.
Example: Mutated Mass has the text "This card's {p} and {d} are equal to twice the number of cards in your pitch zone with different costs," which can be interpreted as "This card's {p} and {d} are equal to twice the number of cards in your pitch zone with the cost property, that have different costs." This means cards without the cost property, such as Heart of Fyendal, will not satisfy the condition (and be included in the calculation) if it is in the pitch zone.
1.8.7a If an effect requires the value of a numeric property from a specific object without that property, then zero is used as the value for the purpose of the effect.
Example: Ravenous Rabble has the text "… reveal the top card of your deck. this gets -X{p}, where X is the pitch value of the card revealed this way." If the revealed card for this effect was Gorganian Tome, which does not have the pitch property, the value of X would be zero.
1.8.8 If an effect instructs a player to perform an action "as though" the game state or rules were modified, or if an effect states an object or action "counts as" another object or action, rules and effects consider the modified game state or rules for the applicable effect only.
Example: Teklovossen, the Mechropotent has the text "This counts as having 4 Evos equipped." Effects that count the number of Evos a player has equipped would have their count increased by 4 due to this effect, but effects that apply to or interact directly with equipped Evos would not be affected.
1.8.9 An effect fails if (A) it is a targeted effect and all declared target(s) are no longer legal or have ceased to exist, (B) the effect requires additional parameters and there are no legal parameters that can be chosen, or (C) if all the events it creates fail to occur. If there are sufficient parameters to allow the effect to be generated and at least one event that it creates does not fail to occur, the effect does not fail.
Example: Flick Knives has the text "Target dagger you control that isn't on the active chain link deals 1 damage to target hero." If the dagger that is targeted ceases to exist before the effect is generated, the effect fails to be and no damage will be dealt.
1.8.10 If an effect specifies "your next attack" but does not specify how the player gains control of the attack, it refers to the next attack that is played, activated, triggered, or otherwise comes under the player's control, and the effect applies to the attack at that time.
Example: Prismatic Leyline has the text "Your next red attack this turn gets +1{p}, your next yellow gets +2{p}, and your next blue gets +3{p}." If a player plays a red attack with stealth, it will get +1{p}. If the red attack is replaced with a blue attack using Uzuri's activated ability, the blue attack will get +3{p} as it is a new attack that comes under the player's control.
1.8.10a If an object has already been played, activated, or triggered, or otherwise has come under the player's control, and then the properties of that object change to become an attack as specified by the effect, the effect does not apply.
Example: Take Up the Mantle has the text "… you may banish an attack action card with stealth from your graveyard. If you do, the target becomes a copy of the banished card." If a player plays Prismatic Leyline, then a red attack with stealth, and finally Take Up the Mantle banishing a blue card, the attack will not get +3{p} from Prismatic Leyline as it was already under the control of the player and is not considered their next blue attack.
1.9 Events
1.9.1 An event is a change in the game state produced by the resolution of a layer, the result of an effect, a transition of turn phase or combat step, or an action taken by a player. An event may involve physically changing the game state through one or more instructions - it can be modified by replacement effects[6.4] and can trigger triggered effects.[5.5]
1.9.1a If an event comprises an instruction that involves elements outside the game, that event cannot be modified by replacement effects or trigger triggered effects within the game, unless the event directly interacts with the game.
Example: Go Bananas has the text "Open and reveal a booster pack of Flesh and Blood and put all cards with the chosen name into your hand," which creates a 'reveal' event and a 'put' event as part of its resolution. The 'reveal' event only operates outside of the game, so any replacement effects and triggered effects within the game do not interact with it.  The 'put' event directly interacts with the game by putting an object into a game zone, so replacement effects and triggered effects within the game may interact with it.
1.9.1b If an event comprises an instruction to do nothing, the event does not occur. It cannot be modified by replacement effects and does not trigger effects.
Example: Blazing Aether has the text "Deal X arcane damage to target hero, where X is the amount of arcane damage you have dealt to that hero this turn." If the player has dealt 0 arcane damage this turn, the resolution of Blazing Aether produces an event that deals 0 arcane damage. Because dealing 0 arcane damage is an instruction to do nothing, it simply does not occur. It cannot be modified to deal more arcane damage by replacement effects, and it does not trigger effects for dealing arcane damage.
1.9.1c If an event comprises an instruction where failure cannot be verified by an opponent based on the current game state, that player may choose to fail to complete that instruction. If they do, the event simply fails as if that instruction cannot be completed.
Example: Moon Wish has the text "When this hits, search your deck for a card named Sun Kiss." The opponent cannot verify that a Sun Kiss is in the player's because the deck is private to the player, so the player may choose to fail to find a card named Sun Kiss even if there is one in their deck.
1.9.2 A multi-event is a collection of two or more individual events that involve performing the same or similar instructions.
Example: Tome of Harvests has the text "Draw 3 cards," which is an effect that produces a multi-event that involves drawing a card three times. Each draw is performed as an individual event: draw a card, draw a card, draw a card.
Example: Trounce has the text "If a hero wins both clashes, they create a Gold, Might, and Vigor token," which is a multi-event that involves creating 3 tokens. Each creation is performed as an individual event: create a Gold token, create a Might token, create a Vigor token.
1.9.2a If a triggered effect triggers from a multi-event, it does not trigger again for any of the individual events of that multi-event.
Example: Valda Brightaxe, has the text "Whenever an opponent draws 1 or more cards," which is a triggered effect that would trigger once on a multi-event of drawing one or more cards, but would not then trigger on each individual event of drawing a single card from that multi-event.
1.9.2b If a replacement effect replaces a multi-event, it does not replace any of the individual events of that multi-event.
Example: Mordred Tide has the text "Until end of turn, if you would create one or more Runechant tokens, instead create that many plus 1," which replaces the multi-event that creates X Runechant tokens with a multi-event that creates X+1 Runechant tokens. It does not then replace each of the X individual "create a Runechant token" event with "create 2 Runechant tokens."
1.9.2c If an event involves two or more players performing an instruction, it is a multi-event where each player performs that instruction in clockwise order as an individual event, starting with the turn-player.[1.1.6] If the event was produced by an effect, each player performs that instruction starting with the controller of the effect instead.
Example: This Round's on Me has the text "Each hero draws a card," which when resolved produces a multi-event that instructs each player to draw a card. This starts with the player who controls This Round's on Me as it resolves on the stack.
1.9.3 A named-event is a event or collection of events which is named according to the keyword effect that produced it.[8.5]
Example: Discard is a named-event which is otherwise identical to a move event - moving a card from the player's hand to their graveyard.
1.9.3a If a replacement effect modifies an event as part of a named-event, but it does not modify the named-event as a whole, the named-event retains its name.
Example: Mark of the Beast has the text "If this would be put into your graveyard from anywhere, instead banish it." If Mark of the Beast would be discarded, the replacement effect modifies the move event to become a banish event, but it does not affect the named-event as a whole. Mark of the Beast would leave the hand and be put into the banished zone as a discard and a banish, triggering any effects that are conditional on those respective events occurring.
1.9.3b If a named-event cannot occur, then none of the events that comprise the named-event occur. If the events that comprise the named-event cannot occur, then named-event is not considered to have occurred.
Example: Opt 1 is a named-event for collection of two other events: look at the top card of the deck, and put the top card on the top or bottom of the deck. If there are no cards in a player's deck, both the look and put events fail to occur, so the opt named-event as a whole fails to occur.
1.10 Game State
1.10.1 A game state is a moment in the game. The game transitions between states when an event occurs.[1.9] A priority state is a game state where a player would typically receive priority.
1.10.2 When the game transitions to a new priority state, the following game state actions are performed first:
1.10.2a First, if one or more heroes have died, their player loses the game (or the game ends in a draw).[4.5]
1.10.2b Second, if one or more living objects in the arena have 0 life total, they are cleared simultaneously as a single event. Living objects that cease to exist are considered to have died.[2.5.1a][3.0.12]
1.10.2c Third, if a continuous effect allows a player to look at a card based on location, they may start looking at that card until it is no longer in that location.[8.5.11]
1.10.2d Fourth, if the state-condition of a state-based triggered effect is met, the effect triggers. Then, if any triggered-layers have been created, but have not been added to the stack, they are added to the stack. If two or more triggered-layers have been created, then each player in clockwise-order adds their own triggered-layers to the stack, starting with a player chosen by the turn-player.[6.6.6b]
1.10.2e Fifth and finally, if the combat chain is open and a rule or effect has closed the combat chain, the Close Step of combat begins.[7.7.2]
1.10.3 If a player makes an illegal action, or starts to make an action that becomes illegal to complete, the game state is reversed to the legal state before that action started.
1.10.3a Triggered effects do not trigger as a result of the action being reversed.
1.10.3b Replacement effects cannot replace any event as a result of the action being reversed.
1.10.3c If the game state cannot be reversed, as much as possible about the state is reversed and the game continues as though it were the last legal state before the reversal.
1.11 Priority
1.11.1 Priority is a game state concept that describes which player (if any), may play a card, activate an ability, or pass priority to the next player.
1.11.2 Only one player can have priority at any point in time. A player who has priority is the "active player." A player who does not have priority is an "inactive player."
1.11.3 The Action Phase is the only phase when players get priority. Within the action phase, players do not get priority during the Close Step of combat. At the beginning of the action phase, during most steps of combat, and after the resolution of a layer, the turn-player gains priority.[4.2][7][5.3]
1.11.4 The active player may pass priority to the next player, referred to as "pass."
1.11.4a If a player passes, priority is given to the next player in clockwise order.[1.1.6] Typically, if all players pass in succession without playing any cards or activating any abilities, and the stack is not empty, the top layer of the stack resolves[5.3] - otherwise if the stack is empty, the phase or step ends.[4][7]
1.11.5 If the active player plays a card or activates an ability, they regain priority after the card has been played or the ability has been activated.[5.1.10] If the active player passes, they lose priority until they receive it again from a rule. No player has priority while playing a card, activating an ability, resolving a layer, during a game process, and/or during game state actions.
1.12 Numbers and Symbols
1.12.1 Numbers are always integers.
1.12.1a If a rule or effect would calculate a fractional number and does not specify to round up or down, the number is rounded towards zero.
Example: An effect that would calculate the number 3.5 would be rounded down to 3, but the number -3.5 would be rounded up to -3.
1.12.1b If a rule or effect requires a player to choose a number, the number selected must be a non-negative integer - zero and above. If it requires the player to choose "up to" a number, the number selected must be between zero and the specified number, inclusive.
1.12.2 The letter X is used to represent a value that starts undefined and is defined later by a rule or effect.
1.12.2a If an object has a property with the value X, and the value of X undefined, the object is still considered to have that property and the value of X is evaluated to be zero.
1.12.2b If an object has a property with the value X, and the value of X is defined, it remains defined until the object ceases to exist.
1.12.2c If there are two or more undefined values in the same context, the letters Y and Z may also be used to represent those undefined values.
1.12.3 The asterisk symbol (*) is used to represent a value that is defined by a meta-static ability or continuous effect.
1.12.3a If * is undefined, the object is still considered to have that property and the value of * is evaluated to be zero.
Example: Mutated Mass has an ability that defines its power and defense as double the total number of distinct costs of cards in the pitch zone. Outside of a game, this ability cannot be used to define the power and defense, so they are instead evaluated to be zero.
1.12.3b If meta-static ability can be used to define the value of *, then it is evaluated according to the ability. Otherwise, if an effect defines the value of *, it is evaluated according to the effect.
Example: Arakni, Marionette has the text "… you become a random Agent of Chaos." All Agent of Chaos cards have a life property with a value of *. The become/copy effect defines the defines the value of * as the same as the printed life value of Arakni, Marionette.
1.12.4 Symbols are typically used to represent the value of specified properties.[2]
1.12.4a The defense symbol is {d} and represents a defense value.
1.12.4b The intellect symbol is {i} and represents an intellect value.
1.12.4c The life symbol is {h} and represents a life value.
1.12.4d The power symbol is {p} and represents a power value. It is also used to refer to physical damage.[8.5.3b]
1.12.4e The resource symbol is {r} and represents a resource value.
1.12.4f The chi symbol is {c} and represents a chi value.
1.12.4g The tap symbol is {t} and represents the tap effect.[8.5.55]
1.12.4h The untap symbol is {u} and represents a untap effect.[8.5.56]
1.13 Assets
1.13.1 An asset is a point of a given type, owned by a player. There are four types of assets: action points, resource points, life points, and chi points.
1.13.2 An action point is an asset that is typically used to play an action card and/or activate an action ability.
1.13.2a A player can gain action points during their action phase from the following: at the start of their action phase,[4.3] the ability go again,[8.3.5] and effects that grant the player action points.
1.13.2b A player cannot gain action points if it is not their action phase. If a player would gain an action point from a rule or effect but it is not their action phase, instead they do not gain any action points.
Example: Lead the Charge has the text "The next time you play an action card with cost 0 or greater this turn, gain 1 action point. Go again." If a non-turn-player played (as an instant) Lead the Charge (red), they would not gain an action point from the ability "go again." If they then played an action card with cost 0 (as an instant), they would not gain an action point from the delayed-triggered effect of Lead the Charge.
1.13.3 A resource point is an asset that is typically used to play cards and activate abilities.
1.13.3a A player can gain resource points from the following: pitching cards during the payment of an asset-cost that requires resource points,[1.14.3] and effects that grant the player resource points.
1.13.4 A life point is an asset that is paid from a player's hero's life total and is typically used to activate abilities.
1.13.4a A player can gain life points from effects that increase the player's hero's life total.
1.13.5 A chi point is an asset that is typically used to play cards and activate abilities.
1.13.5a A player can gain chi points from the following: pitching cards during the payment of an asset-cost that requires chi or resource points.[1.14.3]
1.13.5b A chi point can be used in place of a resource point for paying resource point costs.
1.14 Costs
1.14.1 A cost is the requirement of payment from a player incurred by playing a card, activating an ability, or resolving/applying an effect. A cost requires the payment of assets (asset-costs) and/or the successful resolution of effects (effect-costs).
1.14.2 An asset-cost is a cost that requires the payment of one or more assets.[1.13] To pay an asset-cost as a player, the player must have or gain assets of the appropriate type equal to, or greater than, the cost to be paid; then those the asset-cost amounts are subtracted from the player's assets and the cost is considered paid.
1.14.2a If an asset-cost involves paying two or more types of assets, they must be paid in the following order: chi points, resource points, life points, action points. Each type of asset must be paid in full before starting to pay for the next type.
1.14.2b If a player does not have enough assets and does not gain any additional assets to pay an asset-cost, the cost cannot be paid and the game state is reversed to before the cost is paid. If the asset-cost is mandatory and part of another action, the entire action is reversed..[1.10.3]
1.14.2c To pay a chi point cost, the player must use chi points.[1.13.5] If they have fewer chi points than required, the player may pitch cards[1.14.3] one at a time until they have enough chi points to pay the cost.
1.14.2d To pay a resource point cost, the player must use resource points[1.13.3] and chi points.[1.13.5] If they have fewer resource points and chi points than required, the player may pitch cards[1.14.3] one at a time until they have enough resource points and chi points to pay the cost, then the cost is paid. The player must use all of their chi points before using any of their resource points to pay a resource point cost.
Example: A player has 1 resource point and plays a card with 3 cost (more than the number of resource points they have). If the player pitches a 3-pitch card, generating 3 resource points, they have finished paying the asset-cost of the card, have 1 resource point left over, and can no longer pitch cards because there are no more costs to pay. If the player pitches a 1-pitch card, generating 1 resource point, they still have 1 resource point left to pay and may continue pitching cards until the asset-cost is paid.
Example: A player plays a card with 2 cost and pitches a 1-pitch card, generating 1 resource point. The player then pitches a 3-pitch card, generating 3 chi points. Because they have enough resource and chi points to pay the cost, 2 chi points are used to pay the resource point cost first, and then they have 1 chi point and 1 resource point left over.
1.14.2e To pay a life point cost, the player must use life points.[1.13.4]
1.14.2f To pay an action point cost, the player must use action points.[1.13.2]
1.14.3 To pitch a card as a player, the player moves the card from their hand to the pitch zone and gains assets. The pitch property of a card determines what type and how many assets a player gains when the card is pitched.[2.8]
1.14.3a A card cannot be pitched if it does not have the pitch property.
1.14.3b A player may only pitch a card if that card will gain them assets they need to pay an asset-cost or if they are instructed by an effect.[8.5.44]
Example: If a player is paying an asset-cost of 3 chi points, they may only pitch cards that will gain them chi points when pitched. They cannot pitch cards that only gain them resource points.
1.14.3c Pitching a card is an event that can trigger and be replaced by effects.
1.14.4 An effect-cost is a cost that requires payment in the form of generating one or more effects. To pay an effect-cost, the player must be able to successfully generate and resolve the specified costs.
Example: Hope Merchant's Hood has the text "Instant – Destroy this: Shuffle any number of cards from your hand into your deck, then draw that many cards," which is an activated ability with an effect-cost of destroying Hope Merchant's Hood.
1.14.4a If an effect-cost involves generating two or more effects, the player declares the order in which the effects will be generated.
1.14.4b Before the effect-cost is paid, if any of the effects cannot be generated due to a rule or effect, or the effects cannot resolve successfully based on the current game state, the cost cannot be paid and the game state is reversed to before the cost is paid. If the effect-cost is mandatory and part of another action, the entire action is reversed..[1.10.3]
1.14.4c During the payment of an effect-cost, if the events of any effects are replaced and cannot be successfully resolved, the cost is still considered paid.
1.14.5 A cost that is represented by "0," or a cost in which all asset-costs are reduced to zero and there are no effect-costs, is still considered a cost which is paid by acknowledging the zero cost.
1.15 Counters
1.15.1 A counter is a physical marker placed on any public object.[3.0.3] A counter is not an object and does not have properties. The identity of a counter is defined by its name, or its numerical value and symbol. Counters with the same name, or value and symbol, are functionally identical and interchangeable.
1.15.2 When a counter is on an object, it modifies its properties and/or interacts with effects.
1.15.2a A counter with a numerical value and symbol that corresponds to an object property modifies that property of the object it is on. This modification is considered a rule, not an effect, but does take place at the same time as continuous effects that modify the object in the same way.[6.3.2][6.3.3]
1.15.3 When an object ceases to exist, the counters on that object cease to exist.[3.0.9] When a counter is removed from an object it ceases to exist.
1.15.4 If a counter would be added to an object that has a diametrically opposing counter on it, both diametrically opposing counters remain on the object.
Example: If a -1{p} counter is placed on an object with a +1{p} counter on it, they both remain on the object. The counters do not cancel each other out and they are not removed from the object simply because they are diametrically opposing.
1 Glossary
1.-1.1 (1H)
A subtype of a weapon object that is equipped to a weapon zone.[8.2.1]
1.-1.2 (2H)
A subtype of a weapon object that is equipped to two weapon zones.[8.2.2]
1.-1.3 Ability
An object property that generates effects that influence the game. Abilities are either activated abilities, resolution abilities or static abilities.[1.7]
1.-1.4 Ability Keyword
A keyword that substitutes for the rules text of an ability; often accompanied by reminder text.[8.0.4][8.3]
1.-1.5 Action
A type of object or activated ability that can only be played or activated as layer 1 of the stack by the turn-player when they have priority, and costs an action point to play or activate.[8.1.1]
1.-1.6 Action Phase
The second part of a turn, where players are given priority to play cards and activate abilities.[4.3]
1.-1.7 Action Point
An asset used to pay for the cost of playing an action card or activating an action activated ability. Action points can only be gained by the turn-player.[1.13.2]
1.-1.8 Activated Ability
An ability that can be activated to put a layer on the stack, which generates effects when it resolves.[5.2]
1.-1.9 Activated-Layer
A layer object on the stack created by the activation of an activated ability.[1.6.2b]
1.-1.10 Active Player
The player who currently has priority, allowing them to play cards and activate abilities.[1.11]
1.-1.11 Additional Cost
ability: A meta-static ability that adds a cost to playing a card.[5.4.4a] 
phrase: An effect that adds a cost to playing a card.[5.1.3]
1.-1.12 Aether Ashwing
An draconic illusionist dragon ally token.[8.6.15]
1.-1.13 Affliction
A subtype of object that enters the arena under the control of an opponent.[8.2.11]
1.-1.14 Agility
A generic aura token.[8.6.28]
1.-1.15 Ally
A subtype of object that is an independent attacker and/or defender during combat, and resets its life at the end of the turn.[8.2.8]
1.-1.16 Alternative Cost
A meta-static ability that replaces the resource cost of playing a card with a different cost.[5.4.4b]
1.-1.17 Ambush
An ability keyword that allows the player to declare the source as a defending card from arsenal.[8.3.28]
1.-1.18 Amp
An effect keyword that means to increase arcane damage the next time you would deal it this turn.[8.5.47]
1.-1.19 Arcane Barrier
An ability keyword that allows the player to prevent arcane damage to their hero by paying resources.[8.3.8]
1.-1.20 Arcane Damage
A specific type of damage, dealt by effects.[8.5.3b]
1.-1.21 Arcane Shelter
An ability keyword that that prevents arcane damage to a player's hero by destroying this card.[8.3.37]
1.-1.22 Arena
The collective term for of the all Arms, Combat Chain, Chest, Head, Hero, Legs, Permanent, and Weapon zones.[3.0.5] 
1.-1.23 Arms
subtype: A subtype of equipment that represents an item of armwear and can be equipped to an arms zone.[2.10] 
zone: A public zone owned by a player that contains up to one arms object equipped to that zone.[3.2]
1.-1.24 Arrow
A subtype that can only be played from arsenal and only when the player controls a bow.[8.2.6]
1.-1.25 Arsenal
A private zone owned by a player from which cards can be played from.[3.3]
1.-1.26 Ash
subtype: A subtype that becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves or otherwise enters the arena.[8.2.12] 
token: A draconic illusionist ash token.[8.6.14]
1.-1.27 Attack
ability: A resolution ability that determines the layer as an attack-proxy and puts its source on the combat chain as a chain link.[8.3.1][1.4.3]
effect: A discrete effect that determines the layer as an attack-layer and puts a object on the combat chain as a chain link.[8.5.38] 
event: An event that occurs when an attack resolves as a layer on the stack and the Attack Step begins.[7.2.4]
object identity: A term used by effects to refer to an object that is involved in attacking during combat.[1.2.2]
subtype: A subtype of card that initiates combat and becomes a chain link on the combat chain.[8.2.3]
1.-1.28 Attack-Layer
An activated-layer or triggered-layer with the attack effect, that specifies to attack with an object upon resolution.[1.4.4]
1.-1.29 Attack-Proxy
An activated-layer or triggered-layer with the attack ability that represents its source as an attack on the stack.[1.4.3]
1.-1.30 Attack Reaction
A type of card or activated ability that can only be played or activated by the player that controls the attack during the reaction step of combat.[8.1.2]
1.-1.31 Attack Step
The step of combat after the Layer Step, where the attack becomes a chain link on the combat chain. Followed by the Defend Step.[7.2]
1.-1.32 Aura
A subtype that becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves or otherwise enters the arena.[8.2.4]
1.-1.33 Aura of Suspense
A phrase that means an aura with the suspense ability.[8.3.42]
1.-1.34 Bait
A ranger aura token.[8.6.34]
1.-1.35 Banish
An effect keyword that means to move a card to the owner's banished zone.[8.5.1]
1.-1.36 Banished Zone
A public zone where cards that are banished are moved to.[3.4]
1.-1.37 Base
The original value of a property for an object when it was created, which can be modified by effects that specifically modify base values.
1.-1.38 Battleworn
An ability keyword on equipment that accumulates -1{d} counters after it is used to defend.[8.3.2]
1.-1.39 Beat Chest
An ability keyword that gives the card the optional additional cost of discarding a 6{p} card from hand.[8.3.33]
1.-1.40 Become
An effect that causes the properties of an object to defined by a specification or another object.[8.5.25]
1.-1.41 Blade Break
An ability keyword on equipment that destroys it after it is used to defend.[8.3.3]
1.-1.42 Block
A type of card that cannot be played.[8.1.12]
1.-1.43 Blasmophet, the Soul Harvester
A shadow demon ally token.[8.6.6]
1.-1.44 Blood Debt
An ability keyword on a card that causes the player to lose life at the end of the turn if the card is in the banished zone.[8.3.11]
1.-1.45 Bloodrot Pox
A generic aura token.[8.6.19]
1.-1.46 Boost
An ability keyword that gives the card the optional additional cost of banishing the top card of the deck. If the banished card is a Mechanologist card, the played card gains go again.[8.3.9]
1.-1.47 Card
An entity with properties, represented by an official Flesh and Blood card.[4.2]
1.-1.48 Card-Layer
A card as a unresolved layer on the stack.[1.6.2a]
1.-1.49 Chain Link
A subsection of the combat chain zone that contains cards and tokens relating to a specific attack.[7.0.3]
1.-1.50 Chain Link Resolution
The resolution of an attack as a chain link during the resolution step of combat.[7.6]
1.-1.51 Channel
A label keyword, with a triggered ability that destroys its source if the controlling player does put the specified cards at the bottom of their deck at the end of their turn.[8.4.4]
1.-1.52 Charge
An effect keyword that means to put a card from the player's hand into their hero's soul.[8.5.29]
1.-1.53 Chest
subtype: A subtype of equipment that represents an item of clothing and can be equipped to a chest zone.[2.10] 
zone: A public zone owned by a player that contains up to one chest object equipped to that zone.[3.5]
1.-1.54 Cintari Sellsword
A warrior mercenary ally token.[8.6.29]
1.-1.55 Clash
An effect keyword that means reveal and compare the power of each clashing player's deck.[8.5.45]
1.-1.56 Class
A category of supertype keywords that represents a hero's profession.[2.11.6a]
1.-1.57 Clear
A process that involves moving objects to the graveyard.[3.0.12]
1.-1.58 Cloaked
An ability keyword on equipment that causes this card to be equipped face-down instead of face-up.[8.3.36]
1.-1.59 Close Step
The step of combat after the Resolution Step or when the combat chain is closed by a rule or effect, where no player has priority and the combat chain is closed through a game state process.[7.7]
1.-1.60 Color
A property of an object which can be either red, yellow, or blue.[2.1]
1.-1.61 Combat Chain
A shared public zone that is only open during combat and facilitates the resolution of attacks as chain links.[3.6]
1.-1.62 Combo
A label keyword on ninja attack action cards, with a static ability that generates effects that are conditional on the last attack of the combat chain.[8.4.1]
1.-1.63 Companion
A type of card that may start the game in play in one of the equipment zones (arms, chest, head, or legs) or weapon zones, depending on the subtype.[8.1.14][4.1]
1.-1.64 Confidence
A generic aura token.[8.6.35]
1.-1.65 Construct
A subtype that changes the active face of its source and becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves. [8.2.14][9.1]
1.-1.66 Continuous Effect
An ongoing effect that modifies the abilities, properties, control of objects, and/or the rules of the game.[6.2]
1.-1.67 Contract
contract: An effect that lays out the actions the player needs to take to complete the contract.[8.5.39] 
label: A label keyword on assassin cards, with a static ability that has a contract effect and a triggered effect that triggers when the contract is completed.[8.4.7]
1.-1.68 Control
The relationship of an object that describes which player can activate its abilities, or relationship of chain link that describes which player controls the attack of that chain link. See object,[1.2.1b] card,[1.3.1b] layer,[1.6.1b] ability,[1.7.1b] and effect.[1.8.1b]
1.-1.69 Controller
The player that is in control of the object or chain link. See Control.
1.-1.70 Copper
A generic item token.[8.6.4]
1.-1.71 Copy
See Become.
1.-1.72 Cost
concept: The requirement of payment from a player incurred by an ability, card, effect, or rule.[1.14] 
property: The number of resources required to play the card or activate the ability.[2.2]
1.-1.73 Counters
A physical marker on an object in the arena that modifies the properties of the object and/or interacts with effects.[4.6]
1.-1.74 Crank
An ability keyword that allows the player remove a steam counter from the card when it enters the area to gain an action point.[8.3.29]
1.-1.75 Create
A effect keyword that means to bring a token into existence in the arena, or a card into the game.[8.5.2][8.5.40]
1.-1.76 Crush
A label keyword on guardian attack action cards, with a triggered ability that has a trigger condition that 4 or more damage is dealt by the attack.[8.4.2]
1.-1.77 Damage
An event that reduces a subject's life total by a specified amount. The three types of damage are arcane, physical, and generic.[8.5.3b]
1.-1.78 Damage Step
The step of combat after the Reaction Step, where the power of the attack is compared to the sum of defense of the defending cards and the target is dealt physical damage. Followed by the Resolution Step.[7.5]
1.-1.79 Deal
An effect keyword that means to reduce the life total of the subject by the specified amount using a type of damage. ([8.5.3])
1.-1.80 Deck
general: A collection of cards a player must have to participate in the game. 
zone: A private zone owned by a player that starts with cards from the player's starting deck.[3.7]
1.-1.81 Decompose
A label keyword on earth cards, with a play-static ability that allows the player to banish cards to gain an additional benefit.[8.4.14]
1.-1.82 Defence
A property of an object that represents how much it reduces attack damage, as a defending card.[7.3.2][7.4.2d]
1.-1.83 Defend
The act of adding an object to a chain link as a defending card.[7.0.5]
1.-1.84 Defend Step
The step of combat after the Attack Step, where the defending hero (if any) declares defending cards. Followed by the reaction Step.[7.3]
1.-1.85 Defending
A card on a chain link that contributes a defense value to the defense sum compared to the power of the attack during the damage step of combat.[7.0.5][7.5]
1.-1.86 Defense Reaction
A type of card or activated ability that can only be played or activated by a player whose hero is being attacked during the reaction step of combat.[8.1.3]
1.-1.87 Delayed-Triggered Effect
A layer-continuous triggered effect that, once generated, does not require its source to be in the arena in order to trigger.[6.6.3]
1.-1.88 Dependent Effect
A continuous effect that has an outcome dependent on the application of another effect that precedes it in the staging-system.[6.3.2a]
1.-1.89 Destroy
An effect keyword that means to move a card to the owner's graveyard.[8.5.4]
1.-1.90 Discard
An effect keyword that means to move a card from a player's hand to their graveyard.[8.5.5]
1.-1.91 Discrete Effect
A one-off effect that creates an event that modifies the game state.[6.1]
1.-1.92 Distribute
An effect keyword that means to create and/or allocate counters onto objects.[8.5.30]
1.-1.93 Dominate
An ability keyword that prohibits the defending hero from defending with more than one card from hand.[8.3.4]
1.-1.94 Draw
An effect keyword that means to move the top card of the player's deck into their hand.[8.5.6]
1.-1.95 Earth Bond
A label keyword on elemental attack action cards, with a static ability that generates effects that are conditional having pitched an earth card to play the card.[8.4.15]
1.-1.96 Effect
A phenomenon generated by an ability that can change the game state by producing events or applying changes to objects or the game itself.
1.-1.97 Effect Keyword
A keyword that substitutes for the rules text of an effect.[8.0.6][8.5]
1.-1.98 Embodiment of Earth
An elemental aura token.[8.6.11]
1.-1.99 Embodiment of Lightning
An elemental aura token.[8.6.12]
1.-1.100 Ephemeral
An ability keyword that removes its source from the game if it would enter the graveyard.[8.3.21]
1.-1.101 End Phase
The third and final part of a turn where the "beginning of the end phase" event occurs, action and resource points are lost, the turn-player can move a card from the hand to their arsenal and draws up to their hero's intellect.[4.4]
1.-1.102 Equip
An effect keyword that puts an equipment or weapon object into its respective zone, which becomes its equipped zone. ([8.5.41])
1.-1.103 Equipment
A type of card that may start the game in play in one of the equipment zones (arms, chest, head, or legs) or weapon zones, depending on the subtype, and can be used to defend against attacks.[8.1.4][4.1]
1.-1.104 Essence
An ability keyword that allows the player to include additional cards in their deck based on their talent; earth, ice, and/or lightning.[8.3.16]
1.-1.105 Event
A change in the game state that may involve performing one or more instructions.[1.9]
1.-1.106 Evo Upgrade
A label keyword on mechanologist cards, with a static ability that generates effects based on the number of Evos the player has equipped.[8.4.11]
1.-1.107 Exposed
A head, chest, arms, or legs zone, is exposed if it is empty.[3.0.1a]
1.-1.108 Fealty
A draconic aura token.[8.6.31]
1.-1.109 Figment
A subtype that becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves or otherwise enters the arena.[8.2.16]
1.-1.110 Fixed-Prevention effect
A prevention effect that applies a fixed prevention amount to each event it modifies and does not carry over any leftover prevention amount.[6.4.10i]
1.-1.111 Flavor Text
Text contained in the text box of a card that serves as a mechanism of adding depth or background to the card in the context of Flesh and Blood lore.[2.12]
1.-1.112 Frailty
A generic aura token.[8.6.20]
1.-1.113 Freeze
An effect keyword that means the object can not be played, its activated abilities can not be activated, and it can be unfrozen.[8.5.34][8.5.37]
1.-1.114 Frostbite
An elemental aura token.[8.6.10]
1.-1.115 Fusion
An ability keyword that requires the player to reveal cards with a specified talent to be considered fused; earth, ice, and/or lightning.[8.3.17]
1.-1.116 Gain
general effect: An effect keyword that universally means that the properties of an object change by gaining a property, gaining part of a property, and/or increasing the value of a numeric property. Gains is synonymous with "gets", "has", and "is"; and is the antonym of "loses".[8.5.8][8.5.9]
life effect: An effect keyword that means to increase the life total of the hero or another living object.[8.5.7] 
resource effect: An effect keyword that means to increase the resource assets of a player.[8.5.7]
1.-1.117 Galvanize
A label keyword on mechanologist cards, with a triggered-static ability that generates an effect that triggers wheen defending and allows the player to destroy an item they control for an additional benifit.[8.4.12]
1.-1.118 Game
A single competition of Flesh and Blood between the players, that results in a win for a player or a draw for two or more players.[4.0.1]
1.-1.119 Generic
A placeholder for supertypes, used in the type box, that represents the absence of any supertypes.[2.14.1a]
1.-1.120 Generic Damage
Untyped damage, dealt by effects.[8.5.3b]
1.-1.121 Give
An effect keyword that means to voluntarily transfer control from one player to another.[8.5.53]
1.-1.122 Go again
An ability keyword that gives an action point when the card or ability-layer resolves on the stack or when a chain link resolves and combat moves to the resolution step.[8.3.5]
1.-1.123 Go Fish
An label keyword on arrows, with a static ability that generates an effect which triggers when the attack hits a hero.[8.4.18]
1.-1.124 Gold
A generic item token.[8.6.16]
1.-1.125 Golden Cog
A mechanologist cog item token.[8.6.32]
1.-1.126 Goldkiss Rum
A generic item token.[8.6.33]
1.-1.127 Graphene Chelicera
An assassin weapon dagger token.[8.6.30]
1.-1.128 Graveyard
A public zone owned by a player which resolved, destroyed, discarded cards are moved to.[3.8]
1.-1.129 Guardwell
An ability keyword on equipment that accumulates -1{d} counters equal to its {d} value after it is used to defend.[8.3.34]
1.-1.130 Hand
A private zone owned and held by a player.[3.9]
1.-1.131 Head
subtype: A subtype of equipment that represents an item of headwear and can be equipped to a head zone.[2.10] 
zone: A public zone owned by a player that contains up to one head object equipped to that zone.[3.10]
1.-1.132 Heave
An ability keyword that allows the player to pay X resources to put the card from their hand into their arsenal at the end of their turn and create X Seismic Surge tokens.[8.3.18]
1.-1.133 Heavy
A label keyword on weapon cards, with a static ability that generates effects that are conditional having only this weapon equipped in the weapon zones.[8.4.17]
1.-1.134 Hero
type: A type of a card that can be used as the hero card of a player.[8.1.5] 
zone: A public zone owned by a player that contains up to one card with the type hero.[3.11]
1.-1.135 Hidden Activated Ability
An activated ability that can be activated when its source object is private[5.2.4]
1.-1.136 Hidden Triggered Ability
A triggered ability that can be optionally triggered when its source object is private[5.4.7b]
1.-1.137 High Tide
An label keyword on attack action cards, with a static ability that generates effects if two or more blue cards are in the pitch zone.[8.4.18]
1.-1.138 Hit
An event that occurs when an attack deals damage to its target during the damage step of combat.[7.5.5]
1.-1.139 Identity-Replacement Effect
A replacement effect that modifies an object as it enters the arena.[6.4.8]
1.-1.140 Ignore
An effect keyword that means to consider an event, or part of an event, to have never happened.[8.5.33]
1.-1.141 Inactive Player
A player who currently does not have priority, and cannot play cards or activate abilities.[1.11]
1.-1.142 Inertia
A generic aura token.[8.6.21]
1.-1.143 Inline-Triggered Effect
A discrete triggered effect that triggers when it is generated if the trigger condition is met.[6.6.2]
1.-1.144 Instant
A type of object that can be played or activated as any layer of the stack by the active player.[8.1.6]
1.-1.145 Intellect
A property of a hero card that is used for how many cards that player draws up to at the end of the turn phase.[2.4][4.4]
1.-1.146 Intimidate
An effect keyword means to banish a card from a player's hand face down and to return it at the end of the turn.[8.5.10]
1.-1.147 Invocation
A subtype that changes the active face of its source and becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves.[8.2.13][9.1]
1.-1.148 Item
A subtype that becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves or otherwise enters the arena.[8.2.5]
1.-1.149 James White
The founder of Legend Story Studios and creator of Flesh and Blood.
1.-1.150 Label Keyword
A keyword that groups abilities with common effects.[8.0.5][8.4]
1.-1.151 Landmark
A subtype that becomes a permanent in the arena when it resolves or enters the arena, and replaces any current landmark in the arena.[8.2.9]
1.-1.152 Last Known Information
The properties of an object that no longer exists, referenced by a rule or effect.[1.2.3]
1.-1.153 Layer
A card, activated-layer, or triggered-layer on the stack that is waiting to be resolved.[1.6]
1.-1.154 Layer-Continuous Effect
A continuous effect created by the resolution of a layer on the stack.[6.2.2]
1.-1.155 Layer Step
The first step of combat, where an attack is unresolved as a layer on the stack. Followed by the Attack Step.[7.1]
1.-1.156 Legendary
An ability keyword that limits a player to only including one of that card in their deck.[8.3.6]
1.-1.157 Legend of the Watery Grave
A combination of two abilities: Legendary[8.3.6] and Watery Grave[8.3.41].
1.-1.158 Legs
subtype: A subtype of equipment that represents an item of legwear and can be equipped to a legs zone.[2.10] 
zone: A public zone owned by a player that contains up to one legs object equipped to that zone.[3.12]
1.-1.159 Life
A property of an object that defines its starting life total. Objects with the life property are living objects.[2.5]
1.-1.160 Life Loss
A reduction of life total that can occur by being dealt damage or from an effect.
1.-1.161 Life Total
A value that represents the maximum amount of life loss that can occur for a hero before the player loses the game. Calculated as the base life of a hero plus life gained and minus life lost.[2.5.3]
1.-1.162 Lightning Flow
A label keyword on elemental attack action cards, with a static ability that generates effects that are conditional on having played a light card this turn.[8.4.16]
1.-1.163 Look
An effect keyword that allows a player to gain the information of the properties of a card, despite it being private.[8.5.11]
1.-1.164 Lose
general effect: An effect keyword that universally means that the properties of an object change by losing a property, losing part of a property, and/or decreasing the value of a numeric property. Lose is synonymous with "gets"; and is the antonym of "gains" and "has".[8.5.13] 
life effect: An effect keyword that means to decrease the life total of the hero or another living object.[8.5.12] 
resource effect: An effect keyword that means to decrease the resource assets of a player.[8.5.12]
1.-1.165 Macro
A type of non-card object that is used as a game-piece for specific formats.[1.5]
1.-1.166 Mark
An effect keyword that means to make a hero marked.[8.5.50]
1.-1.167 Match
One or more consecutive games between the same players.[4.0.2]
1.-1.168 Material
A label keyword, with a while-static ability that is functional when it is under a permanent.[8.4.5]
1.-1.169 Meld
An ability keyword that allows the player to play both sides of a split-card by paying twice the cost.[8.3.38]
1.-1.170 Mentor
ability: An obsolete ability keyword that limits the player to include it in their deck only if they have a young hero.[8.3.12] 
type: A type of card that can only be included in a player's deck if they have a young hero.[8.1.10]
1.-1.171 Meta-Static Ability
A static ability that influences the rules outside of the game.[5.4.3]
1.-1.172 Might
A generic aura token.[8.6.26]
1.-1.173 Mirage
An ability keyword that destroys its source if it is defending an attack with 6 or more power.[8.3.25]
1.-1.174 Modular
An ability keyword that allows the player to equip the card it to any zone, and the card takes on the respective subtype of the zone its equippde to.[8.3.30]
1.-1.175 Multi Event
An event that represents repeating an instruction two or more times, and splits into individual events for each instruction to occur.[1.9.2]
1.-1.176 Name
effect: An effect keyword that means the player determines the name of an object to be used by another effect.[8.5.21] 
property: A property of an object. Names are used by the specialization ability and for identifying tokens. Names and pitch values are used to determine uniqueness of a card.[2.7]
1.-1.177 Negate
An effect keyword that removes a layer from the stack, preventing it from resolving.[8.5.26]
1.-1.178 Non-Turn Player
A player who is not the turn-player; it is not their turn of the game.[4.0.3b]
1.-1.179 Off-Hand
A subtype of an equipment object that can be equipped to a weapon zone and can not be equipped with another off-hand equipment.[8.2.10]
1.-1.180 Opt
An effect keyword that means to look at the top cards of the deck and put each of them at the top or bottom of the deck in any order.[8.5.22]
1.-1.181 Overpower
An ability keyword that prohibits the defending hero from defending with more than one action card.[8.3.22]
1.-1.182 Owner
A relationship of a card, token, or permanent, that describes which player brought it into the game. See object,[1.2.1a] card,[1.3.1a] and layer.[1.6.1a]
1.-1.183 Pairs (with)
An ability keyword that restricts the player from equipping the card unless it the specified card is also equipped.[8.3.26]
1.-1.184 Pay
act: To perform the actions required by a cost, such as spending assets like action points and resource costs, or resolving one more effects.[1.14] 
effect: An effect keyword that means to perform the act of paying to satisfy an asset-cost.[8.5.31]
1.-1.185 Perched
An ability that allows a card to be equipped in addition to a 2H weapon.[8.2.15]
1.-1.186 Phantasm
An ability keyword on an attack that destroys its source when it is defended by an attack action card with 6 or more power, which may close the combat chain.[8.3.13]
1.-1.187 Physical Damage
A specific type of damage, dealt by attacks during the damage step of combat.[8.5.3b]
1.-1.188 Piercing
An ability keyword that increases the power of its source when it's defended by equipment.[8.3.23]
1.-1.189 Pitch
act: Moving a card from the hand into the pitch zone to generate resource points to pay a cost.[1.14.2d] 
effect: An effect keyword that means to move a card from the hand into the pitch zone to generate resource points, without having to pay a cost.[8.5.44]
property: The number of resource points generated when the card is pitched.[2.8]
1.-1.190 Play
To add a card to the stack, determine its parameters, and then pay its associated costs.[5.1]
1.-1.191 Play-Static Ability
A static ability that functions when its source is played as a card on the stack.[5.4.4]
1.-1.192 Player
A person playing the game.[1.1]
1.-1.193 Ponder
A generic aura token.[8.6.17]
1.-1.194 Power
A property of an object that represents its strength as an attack.[2.9]
1.-1.195 Prevention Effect
A replacement effect that reduces the damage amount of a damage event that is about to occur.[6.4.10]
1.-1.196 Priority
The ability to play cards and activate abilities, given to one player at a time during the action phase.[1.11]
1.-1.197 Property
An attribute of an object that defines how that object interacts with rules and effects in the game.[2]
1.-1.198 Property-Static Ability
A static ability that defines the value of its source object anywhere in and outside the game.[5.4.5]
1.-1.199 Protect
An ability keyword that allows the player to declare the card as a defending card for another player.[8.3.31]
1.-1.200 Put
An effect keyword that means either to move an object into another zone, or to create and/or move counters onto an object.[8.5.15]
1.-1.201 Quell
An ability keyword that allows the player to prevent damage to their hero by paying resources, and if they do, the source of the ability is destroyed at the beginning of the end phase.[8.3.19]
1.-1.202 Quicken
A generic aura token.[8.6.1]
1.-1.203 Quiver
A subtype of an equipment object that can be equipped to a weapon zone even with a 2H Bow.[8.2.15]
1.-1.204 Reaction Step
The step of combat after the Defend Step, where the attacking hero can play attack reactions and instants, and the defending hero (if any) can play defense reaction and instants. Followed by the Damage Step.[7.4]
1.-1.205 Reload
An effect keyword that means to give the player the option of putting a single card from their hand into their arsenal if it is empty.[8.5.23]
1.-1.206 Reminder Text
Text contained in the text box of a card that serves as a reminder to the players of the definition of or rules about a card, token, ability, or effect.[2.12]
1.-1.207 Remove
An effect keyword that means to take a counter off of an object.[8.5.13]
1.-1.208 Repeat
An effect keyword that means to repeat a previous set of effects until a certain condition or number of repetitions is met.[8.5.27]
1.-1.209 Replacement Effect
An effect that replaces an event with a modified event, immediately before it occurs.[6.4]
1.-1.210 Reprise
A label keyword on warrior attack reaction cards, with an ability that is conditional on if the defending hero has defended with a card from their hand.[8.4.3]
1.-1.211 Reroll
An effect keyword that means to roll a die again and use the new result instead.[8.5.28]
1.-1.212 Resolution Ability
An ability that generates effects when the card (as a card layer) resolves on the stack.
1.-1.213 Resolution Step
The step of combat after the Damage Step, where the chain link attack is resolved, the controller of the resolved chain link gains an action point if it has "go again", and they may play another attack or close the combat chain.[7.6]
1.-1.214 Resolve
effect: Creating the events of an effect and executing their instructions.[1.8] 
layer: A change in game state that involves generating effects from, and then removing, the top layer on the stack.[5.3]
1.-1.215 Resource
point: An asset possessed by a player; used to pay for resource costs.[1.13.3] 
type: A type of object that cannot be played.[8.1.7]
1.-1.216 Retrieve
An effect keyword that means the player may pay {r} to equip something.[8.5.51]
1.-1.217 Return to the Brood
An effect keyword that means for a player's hero to become their base hero.[8.5.52]
1.-1.218 Reveal
An effect keyword that means to show an object to every player.[8.5.17]
1.-1.219 Roll
An effect keyword that means to toss a die to generate a random number.[8.5.18]
1.-1.220 Rules Text
Text contained in the text box of a card that defines the abilities of that card.[2.12]
1.-1.221 Runechant
A Runeblade aura token.[8.6.3]
1.-1.222 Rune Gate
An ability keyword that allows the player to play its source from the banished zone without paying its resource cost.[8.3.27]
1.-1.223 Rupture
A label keyword on draconic cards, with an ability that is conditional on the card being played as/on chain link 4 or higher of the current combat chain.[8.4.6]
1.-1.224 Scrap
An ability keyword that gives the card the optional additional cost of banishing an item or equipment from the graveyard.[8.3.32]
1.-1.225 Search
An effect keyword that means to look through a zone and select a card that matches specification.[8.5.19]
1.-1.226 Seismic Surge
A guardian aura token.[8.6.2]
1.-1.227 Self-Replacement Effect
A replacement effect that modifies an effect or event of a preceding effect or leading connected ability.[6.4.7]
1.-1.228 Sharpen
An effect keyword means to put a +1{p} counter on a card and to all +1{p} counters from it at the end of the turn.[8.5.58]
1.-1.229 Shielding-Prevention Effect
A prevention effect that applies as much of its remaining prevention amount it can to each event it modifies and carries over any leftover prevention amount. (See [6.4.10j]
1.-1.230 Shuffle
An effect keyword that means to randomize the order of a collection of cards, typically the deck.[8.5.20]
1.-1.231 Sigil of Fate
A Sigil of Fate aura token.[8.6.37]
1.-1.232 Silver
A generic item token.[8.6.13]
1.-1.233 Soul
A collection of cards in the hero zone, placed face up underneath the hero card, but not considered to be in the arena.[3.11.5]
1.-1.234 Soul Shackle
A shadow runeblade aura token.[8.6.7]
1.-1.235 Source
ability: The source that has that ability.[1.7.1a] 
effect: The source of the ability that generated the effect, unless otherwise specified.[1.8.1a]
1.-1.236 Specialization
An ability keyword that limits the card to only being included in decks with a hero that has the same name (or moniker) as the specialization.[8.3.7]
1.-1.237 Spectra
An ability keyword that allows its source to be the target of an attack and destroys its source if it is attacked, which may close the combat chain.[8.3.14]
1.-1.238 Spectral Shield
An illusionist aura token.[8.6.8]
1.-1.239 Spellbane Aegis
A generic aura token.[8.6.18]
1.-1.240 Spellvoid
An ability keyword that allows the player to prevent arcane damage to their hero by destroying this object.[8.3.15]
1.-1.241 Stack
A zone that facilitates the resolution of layers to generate effects.[3.15]
1.-1.242 Standard-Replacement Effect
A typical replacement effect that modifies events that match its condition.[6.4.9]
1.-1.243 Start-of-game Procedure
A series of setup steps that precede the start of the game. It involves the player revealing their hero card, deciding on the first turn-player, selecting equipment and weapons, shuffling and presenting their deck, and drawing their hand.[4.1]
1.-1.244 Start Phase
The first part of a turn where start-of-turn triggered effects are resolved, followed by the Action Phase.[4.2]
1.-1.245 Static Ability
An ability that generates effects without resolving (as) a layer on the stack.[5.4]
1.-1.246 Static-Continuous Effect
A continuous effect generated by a static ability.[6.2.3]
1.-1.247 Static-Triggered Effect
A static-continuous triggered effect that typically requires its source to be in the arena in order to trigger.[6.6.4]
1.-1.248 Steal
An effect keyword that means to involuntarily transfer control from one player to another.[8.5.54]
1.-1.249 Stealth
An ability that does nothing; however, effects may refer to objects that have stealth.[8.3.24]
1.-1.250 Step
A component of combat in the action phase.[7]
1.-1.251 Subtype
A property of an object that can define interactions with rules and/or effects.[2.10]
1.-1.252 Supertype
A property of an object. Only cards with a supertype subset of the player's hero's supertypes can be included in their registered deck (in constructed formats) or starting deck (in limited formats).[2.11]
1.-1.253 Surge
A label keyword on wizard action cards, with an effect that is conditional on the source dealing more than a specified amount of arcane damage.[8.4.8]
1.-1.254 Suspense
An ability keyword that causes its source to enter the arena with suspense counters, remove a suspense counter each turn, and leave the arena when it has none left.[8.3.42]
1.-1.255 Talent
A category of supertype keywords that represents a hero's regional specialties.[2.11.6b]
1.-1.256 Tap
An effect keyword that means to change a permanent from untapped to tapped.[8.5.55]
1.-1.257 Temper
An ability keyword on equipment that accumulates -1{d} counters after it is used to defend, and destroys it if the defense is zero.[8.3.10]
1.-1.258 Text Box
A property of a card that can contain rules text, reminder text, and flavor text. The rules text defines the abilities of the card.[2.12]
1.-1.259 The Crowd Cheers / The Crowd Boos
An effect keyword that causes the player to be cheered or booed. [8.5.57]
1.-1.260 Token
keyword: A keyword that refers to a specific token; often accompanied by reminder text.[8.0.7][8.6]
object: An temporary card in the arena.[8.6] 
1.-1.261 Toughness
A generic aura token.[8.6.36]
1.-1.262 Tower
A label keyword on guardian action cards, with a static ability that generates effects that are conditional the card having 13 or more {p}.[8.4.13]
1.-1.263 Transcend
An effect keyword that means to flip the card and put it into the owner's hand.[8.5.48]
1.-1.264 Transform
An effect keyword that means put the transformed card underneath the permanent it has been transformed into.
1.-1.265 Trigger Condition
A condition of a triggered effect that, when met, creates a triggered-layer on the stack. The trigger condition must also be met for the layer to resolve successfully.[5.5]
1.-1.266 Trigger Event
A game event that occurs and meets the condition of a triggered effect. Once a trigger event has occurred, it does not need to occur again to satisfy the trigger condition for the triggered effect layer to resolve successfully.[5.5]
1.-1.267 Triggered-Static Ability
A static ability that generates a single static-triggered effect.[5.4.6]
1.-1.268 Triggered Effect
An effect that puts a layer on the stack when a game event or game state matches the trigger condition, which generates effects when it resolves.[5.5]
1.-1.269 Triggered-Layer
A layer object on the stack (or to be put onto the stack), created by the triggering of a triggered effect.[1.6.2c]
1.-1.270 Turn
concept: A round of play consisting of 3 phases: Start Phase, Action Phase, and End Phase, where one player is designated as the turn-player.[4] 
effect: An effect keyword that means to flip a card over or to make a private card public (or vice versa).[8.5.24]
1.-1.271 Turn-Player
The player whose turn it currently is. The turn-player can play actions, becomes the active player after a layer resolves, and chooses the player-order for applying replacement effects and adding triggered-layers to the stack.[4.0]
1.-1.272 Type
A property of an object that defines its interactions with rules and effects, such as how and when it can be played, or whether it is a token.[2.15]
1.-1.273 Type Box
A property of a card that defines the types, supertypes, and subtypes of that card.[2.14]
1.-1.274 Unfreeze
An effect keyword that means a frozen object is no longer frozen; existing freeze effects no longer prevents it from being played or its abilities being activated.[8.5.37]
1.-1.275 Universal
An ability keyword that give this card the class of the hero that owns or controls it.[8.3.35]
1.-1.276 Untap
An effect keyword that means to change a permanent from tapped to untapped.[8.5.56]
1.-1.277 Ursur, the Soul Reaper
A shadow demon ally token.[8.6.9]
1.-1.278 Vigor
A generic aura token.[8.6.27]
1.-1.279 Wager
An effect keyword that means give a prize to one player if an attack hits, or another player if it doesn't.[8.5.46]
1.-1.280 Ward
An ability keyword that prevents damage to a player's hero by destroying this card.[8.3.20]
1.-1.281 Watery Grave
An ability keyword turns its source face-down when it moves from the arena to the graveyard.[8.3.41]
1.-1.282 Weapon
type: A type of object that can be equipped to a weapon zone.[8.1.9] 
zone: A public zone owned by a player that contains up to one weapon, off-hand, or quiver object equipped to that zone.[3.16]
1.-1.283 X / Y / Z
A literal placeholder for an undetermined value of an effect.[1.12.2]
1.-1.284 Zen State
A ninja aura token.[8.6.5]
1.-1.285 Zone
A named collection of cards. Zones can be owned by a player or shared between players. Most zones have a physical location in the play-space.[3]
2 Object Properties
2.0 General
2.0.1 A property is an attribute of an object that defines how the object interacts with the rules and effects of the game. There are 13 properties an object may have: abilities,[1.7] color strip, cost, defense, intellect, life, name, pitch, power, subtypes, supertypes, text box, and type.
2.0.1a An ability is a property, not an object. However, activated abilities have the object properties cost and type, for the purposes of rules and effects.
2.0.2 The properties of a card or macro are determined by the true text of the card or macro on cardvault.fabtcg.com.
2.0.3 A numeric property is a property that has a numeric value. The value of some numeric properties can be modified by effects and/or counters to produce a modified value.
2.0.3a An effect that modifies the value of a numeric property does not modify the base value of that property unless otherwise specified by the effect.
Example: An effect that specifies an object to "gain," "get," "have," or "lose" a property-related value, modifies the value of the property but does not change the base value unless it specifically uses the term "base."
2.0.3b If the base value of a numeric property would be modified by an effect, it is not considered to increase or decrease the value for the purposes of effects that reference gaining or losing respectively. Otherwise, if the non-base value would modified, it is considered to increase or decrease the value.
Example: Korshem, Crossroads of the Elements has the text "…, if … no card controlled by a hero has gained {p} or {d} this turn, destroy this." If a player plays a card and an effect applies to the card that increases its (non-base) {p}, a card controlled by a hero has gained {p} and Korshem will not be destroyed.
Example: Big Bully has the text "If you've been booed this turn, this card's base {p} is doubled." If an effect would prevent cards from gaining {p} it would not prevent Big Bully from doubling its base {p} because modification to its base {p} value is not considered gaining {p}.
2.0.3c A numeric property cannot have a negative base or modified value. If one or more effects would set or reduce the base or modified value of a numeric property to be less than zero, instead they set or reduce it to zero.
2.0.3d A +1 or -1 property-related counter on an object, modifies the value of the property but does not change the base value.
2.0.4 An object is considered to have gained a property, or part of a property, if it did not have that property/part before, but currently does. An object is considered to have lost a property, or part of a property, if it had that property/part but currently does not. Gaining or losing a property is not considered to increase or decrease the value for the purposes of effects that reference gaining or losing respectively.
2.0.5 The source of a property is the object of which the property is an attribute.
2.1 Color
2.1.1 Color is a visual representation of the color of a card.
2.1.2 The printed color of a card is typically expressed at the top of a card as a color strip.
A card with a red color strip is considered red.
A card with a yellow color strip is considered yellow.
A card with a blue color strip is considered blue.
2.1.2a The printed pitch of a card is typically associated with the printed color of a card, but they are independent. Cards with a printed pitch of 1, 2, and 3, typically have a color strip of red, yellow, and blue respectively. A card with no printed pitch typically does not have a color strip.
2.2 Cost
2.2.1 Cost is a numeric property of a card or ability, which determines the starting resource asset-cost to play the card or activate the ability.[5.1.6]
2.2.2 The printed cost of a card is typically expressed within a resource point symbol located in the top right corner of the card. The printed cost defines the base cost of a card. If a card does not have a printed cost, it does not have the cost property (0 is a valid printed cost).
2.2.2a If the printed value is expressed as two or more undefined symbols and/or numeric values, they are additive for determining the base cost of a card.
Example: Spark of Genius has the cost property with the printed value of "XX," which determines the base cost as X+X for any value of X.
2.2.3 The printed cost of an activated ability is expressed as {r} symbols as part of the description of the ability, where the number of {r} symbols dictates the printed cost. If there are no resource symbols, then the printed cost is 0. The printed cost defines the base resource cost of the ability.[5.2.1]
2.2.4 The cost property of an object cannot be modified.
2.2.4a An effect that increases or reduces the cost of an object does not modify the cost property of that object. Effects that modify cost are only applied as part of the process for playing or activating that object.[5.1.6]
Example: An effect that reduces the cost to play a card does not change the cost property of that card in any way - it only changes the calculation of the resource cost when that card is being played.
2.2.4b An effect that refers to the cost of an object refers to the unmodified cost property of an object. An effect that refers to the payment of an object, refers to the modified cost of an object when it was paid to play/activate and put that object on the stack.
2.2.5 The visual expression in {r} symbols and the numerical expression of cost are functionally identical.
Example: The text "Search your deck for a card with cost value 1," is considered to be the same as the text "Search your deck for a card with cost value {r}."
2.3 Defense
2.3.1 Defense is a numeric property of an object, which represents the value contributed to the total sum of defense used in the damage step of combat.[7.5]
2.3.2 The printed defense of a card is typically located at the bottom right corner of a card next to the {d} symbol. The printed defense defines the base defense of a card. If a card does not have a printed defense, it does not have the defense property (0 is a valid printed defense).
2.3.2a If the defense of a card is represented as a (c), then the card has an ability that defines the defense of the card at any point in or out of the game. If the ability requires a number that cannot be determined, the defense of the card is 0.
2.3.3 The defense of an object can be modified. The term "defense" or the symbol {d} refers to the modified defense of an object.
2.4 Intellect
2.4.1 Intellect is a numeric property of a hero card, which represents the number of cards the controlling player draws up to at the end of their turn.[4.4]
2.4.2 The printed intellect of a card is typically located at the bottom left corner of a card next to the {i} symbol. The printed intellect defines the base intellect of a card. If a card does not have a printed intellect, it does not have the intellect property (0 is a valid printed intellect).
2.4.3 The intellect of an object can be modified. The term "intellect" or the symbol {i} refers to the modified intellect of an object.
2.5 Life
2.5.1 Life is a numeric property of an object, which represents the starting life total of that object.
2.5.1a A permanent with the life property is a living object.[1.3.3]
2.5.2 The printed life of a card is typically located at the bottom right corner of a card next to the {h} symbol. The printed life defines the base life of a card. If a card does not have a printed life, it does not have the life property (0 is a valid printed life).
2.5.3 The life of a permanent can be modified. The term "life total" or the symbol {h} refers to the modified life of an object.
2.5.3a A permanent's life total is equal to the permanent's base life, plus life gained and minus life lost, as recorded by the players of the game.
2.5.3b Life gained and life lost are not continuous effects - they are discrete effects that apply once, and they permanently modify the life total.[8.5.7]
2.5.3c If the base life of an permanent changes, then the life total is recalculated using the new base life value of the object.
Example: Shiyana has 20 base life and the text "… Shiyana becomes a copy of target hero …." If Shiyana has lost 5 life and copies the target hero is Kano, with 15 base life, the new life total for Shiyana is 10.
2.5.3d An permanent's life total can be greater than its base life.
2.5.3e An permanent cannot have a negative life total. If the life total is calculated to be less than zero, instead it is considered zero.
2.5.3f If a permanent's life total is reduced to zero, it is cleared as a game state action; or if the permanent is a hero, their player loses or the game is a draw as a game state action.[1.10.2][4.5]
2.5.3g If a living object ceases to exist, it is considered to have died.
2.6 Metatype
2.6.1 Metatypes are a collection of metatype keywords. The metatypes of an object determine whether it may be added to a game.
2.6.2 An object can have zero or more metatypes.
2.6.3 The metatype of a card is determined by its type box. The metatype is printed before the card's supertypes.
2.6.4 The metatypes of an activated-layer or triggered-layer are the same as the metatypes of its source.
2.6.5 An object cannot gain or lose metatypes.
2.6.6 Metatypes are either hero-metatypes or set-metatypes. Hero-metatypes specify the moniker(s) of a hero, and the card can only be included in a player's card-pool if it matches their hero's moniker(s). Set-metatypes specify the the name(s) of the set the object can be used in as defined by tournament rules.
2.7 Name
2.7.1 Name is a property of an object, which represents one of its object identities and determines the object's uniqueness (along with the pitch property).[1.2.2][1.3.4]
2.7.2 The printed name of a card is typically located at the top of the card. The printed name defines the name of a card.
2.7.3 If an object has a name that is a personal name, that name determines the object's moniker - the most significant identifier of the object's name. A personal name is typically written in the format "[HONORIFIC?] [MONIKER] [LAST?] [, SUFFIX?]," where HONORIFIC (if any) is one or more name honorifics, MONIKER is the moniker of the name, LAST (if any) is one or more middle and/or last names, and SUFFIX (if any) is a title or nickname written after a comma.
Example: The monikers of these names are as follows: Bravo (Bravo), Dorinthea Ironsong (Dorinthea), Data Doll MKII (Data Doll), Ser Boltyn, Breaker of Dawn (Boltyn), Blasmophet, the Soul Harvester, (Blasmophet), The Librarian (The Librarian), Dawnblade (Dawnblade), Stalagmite, Bastion of Isenloft (Stalagmite).
2.7.3a If an object does not have a name that is a personal name, it does not have a moniker.
2.7.3b If two objects have different names, they may have the same moniker. An effect that refers to an object using a moniker may refer to two or more objects with different names but the same moniker.
Example: The cards "Bravo," "Bravo, Showstopper," and "Bravo, Star of the Show," all have the moniker "Bravo."
2.7.3c A moniker is not considered a name. If an effect identifies an object by a name, it does not identify objects with a moniker that is the same as that name.
Example: If a player is instructed by an effect to name a card and they declare "Dawnblade," the effect identifies cards with the name "Dawnblade," but not cards with the name "Dawnblade, Resplendent" despite them having the moniker "Dawnblade."
2.7.4 An object's printed name is always considered to be the English language version of its name, regardless of the printed language.
2.7.5 A name or part of a name is equal to another name or part of a name only if it is an exact case-insensitive match of each whole word in order.
Example: Censor has the text "When this hits a hero, name a card. They can't play the named card until the end of their next turn." If the named card is "Blazing Aether", the effect would not prevent the player from playing "Trailblazing Aether."
Example: Fabricate has the text "Equip a base equipment with Proto in its name from your inventory." Cards named "Breaker Helm Protos" cannot be equipped this way because "Protos" is not a whole word match for "Proto."
2.8 Pitch
2.8.1 Pitch is a property of a card, which represents the assets a player gains when they pitch the card. The pitch value of the card is the number of assets gained when pitched and it determines the object's uniqueness (along with the name property).[1.14.3][1.3.4]
2.8.2 The printed pitch of a card is expressed visually as one, two, or three socketed {r} or {c} symbols, typically located in the top left corner of a card, where the types of symbols dictate what asset is generated when pitched and the number of symbols dictates the printed pitch value. The printed pitch value defines the base pitch value of a card. If a card does not have a printed pitch value, it does not have the pitch property.
2.8.3 The pitch of an object can be modified. The term "pitch" refers to the modified pitch value of an object.
2.8.4 The visual expression of {r} or {c} symbols and the numerical expression of pitch are functionally identical.
Example: The text "Search your deck for a card with pitch value 1," is considered to be the same as the text "Search your deck for a card with pitch value {r}."
2.9 Power
2.9.1 Power is a numeric property of an object, which represents the power value used in the damage step of combat.[7.5]
2.9.2 The printed power of a card is typically located at the bottom left corner of a card next to the {p} symbol. The printed power defines the base power of a card. If a card does not have a printed power, it does not have the power property (0 is a valid printed power).
2.9.2a If the power value of a card is represented as a (c) then the card has an ability that defines the base power of the card at any point in or out of the game. If the ability requires a number that cannot be determined, the power of the card is 0.
2.9.3 The power of an object can be modified. The term "power" or the symbol {p} refers to the modified power of an object.
2.10 Subtypes
2.10.1 Subtypes are a collection of subtype keywords. The functional subtypes of a card determine what additional rules apply to the card.
2.10.2 An object can have zero or more subtypes.
2.10.3 The subtypes of a card are determined by its type box. Subtypes (if any) are printed after a long dash after the card's type.
2.10.4 The subtypes of an activated-layer or triggered-layer are the same as the subtypes of its source.
2.10.5 An object can gain or lose subtypes from rules and/or effects.
2.10.6 Subtypes are either functional or non-functional keywords. Functional subtypes add additional rules to an object.[8.2] Non-functional subtypes do not add additional rules to an object.
2.10.6a The functional subtype keywords are (1H), (2H), Affliction, Ally, Arrow, Ash, Attack, Aura, Construct, Figment, Invocation, Item, Landmark, Off-Hand, and Quiver.[8.2]
2.10.6b The non-functional subtypes keywords are Angel, Arms, Axe, Base, Book, Bow, Brush, Cannon, Chest, Chi, Claw, Club, Cog, Dagger, Demon, Dragon, Evo, Fiddle, Flail, Gem, Gun, Hammer, Head, Legs, Lute, Mercenary, Orb, Pistol, Pit-Fighter, Polearm, Rock, Scepter, Scroll, Scythe, Shuriken, Song, Staff, Sword, Trap, Wrench, and Young.
2.11 Supertypes
2.11.1 Supertypes are a collection of supertype keywords. The supertypes of a card determine whether a card can be included in a player's card-pool.
2.11.2 An object can have zero or more supertypes.
2.11.3 The supertypes of a card are determined by its type box. Supertypes are printed before the card's type (if any).
2.11.4 The supertypes of an activated-layer or triggered-layer are the same as the supertypes of its source.
2.11.5 An object can gain or lose supertypes from rules and/or effects.
2.11.6 Supertypes are non-functional keywords and do not add additional rules to an object. A supertype is either a class or a talent.
2.11.6a The class supertype keywords are Adjudicator, Assassin, Bard, Brute, Guardian, Illusionist, Mechanologist, Merchant, Necromancer, Ninja, Pirate, Ranger, Runeblade, Shapeshifter, Thief, Warrior, and Wizard.
2.11.6b The talent supertype keywords are Chaos, Draconic, Earth, Elemental, Ice, Light, Lightning, Mystic, Revered, Reviled, Royal, and Shadow.
2.12 Text Box
2.12.1 The text box of a card contains the card text of a card, typically located on the lower half of a card beneath the illustration.
2.12.2 The card text of a card contains the rules text, reminder text, and flavor text of the card (if any). Rules text is printed in roman and boldface. Reminder text is printed in parenthesized italics. Flavor text is separated vertically from the rules and reminder text (if any) by a horizontal bar and is printed in italics.
2.12.3 The rules text of a card defines the base abilities of the card. A paragraph of rules text typically defines a single ability. Reminder and flavor text do not affect the game.
2.12.3a If the rules text specifies the name and/or moniker of its source object in the third-person it is a self-reference. A self-reference can be interpreted as "this" and it refers to its source object and not other cards with the same name.
2.12.3b If the rules text specifies the name and/or moniker of another object in the context of creating it, it refers to a hypothetical object with defined properties, including that name.[8.6] Otherwise, if the rules text specifies the name and/or moniker of another object it refers to any existing object with that name and/or moniker.
2.13 Traits
2.13.1 Trait is a property of an object, which represents one of its object identities.[1.2.2]
2.13.2 The printed traits of a card are typically located at the top of the card, under the card name. The printed traits define the traits of a card.
2.13.3 Traits are non-functional keywords or phrases and do not add additional rules to an object.
2.13.3a The trait keywords and phrases are Agents of Chaos.
2.13.4 If an effect refers to a group of cards by a trait, it refers to all cards with that trait.
Example: Arakni, Web of Deceit has the text "At the beginning of your end phase, if an opponent is marked, you become a random Agent of Chaos." This refers to a group which includes all cards with the Agent of Choas trait, and selecting one at random from that group.
2.14 Type Box
2.14.1 The type box of a card determines the card's metatypes, supertypes, types, and subtypes, typically located at the bottom of the card. Type boxes are typically written in the format "[METATYPES] [SUPERTYPES] [TYPE] [--- SUBTYPES]," where METATYPES is zero or more metatypes, SUPERTYPES is zero or more supertypes, TYPE is zero or more types, and SUBTYPES is zero or more subtypes.
2.14.1a If the SUPERTYPES of a type box is "Generic," the card has no supertypes.
2.14.1b Hybrid cards are cards with SUPERTYPES written in the format "[SUPERTYPES-1] / [SUPERTYPES-2]." A hybrid card can be included in a player's card-pool as though it only has one of the supertypes sets, SUPERTYPES-1 or SUPERTYPES-2, not both.[1.1.3] Otherwise, hybrid cards have all of the supertypes specified by SUPERTYPES-1 and SUPERTYPES-2.
2.15 Types
2.15.1 Types are a collection of type keywords. The types of a card determine whether the card is a hero-, token-, deck-, or arena-card, and how a deck-card may be played.
2.15.2 An object can have zero or more types.
2.15.3 The type of a card is determined by its type box. The type is printed after the card's supertypes, and before a long dash and subtypes (if any).
2.15.4 The types of an activated-layer or triggered-layer are the same as the types of its source.
2.15.4a The types of an activated ability layer include the types determined by the activated ability.[5.2.1]
2.15.5 An object can gain or lose types from rules and/or effects.
2.15.6 Types are functional keywords and add additional rules to an object.[2.15]
2.15.6a The type keywords are Action, Attack Reaction, Block, Companion, Defense Reaction, Demi-Hero, Equipment, Hero, Instant, Macro, Mentor, Resource, Token, and Weapon.[8.1]
2 Acknowledgments
2.0 Legend Story Studios
James White (Flesh and Blood Creator)
Joshua James Scott (Rules and Policy Manager)
Niccolo Paqueo (Assistant Rules Manager)
Scott Wynrose (Assistant Rules Manager)
Laura Lobato (Localisation Manager)
Benjamin William Listen (Localisation Project Manager)
Guillermo Pedernal (Localisation Project Manager)
ryuki matsushita (Japanese Translator)
Yoshiya Shindo (Japanese Translator)
2.1 Community Contributors
Jake Armes
James Armstrong
Mike Ball
Grant Bartel
Dan Collins
Matthew D'Antuono
Yugo Endo
Timothy Grant
Kiril Ivanov
Patrick Jones
Joe Kavanagh
Satoru Kusaka
Klaus Lassacher
Oskar Machnik
Rob McGuinness
Metodi Nikolaev
Daniel Nyberg
René Schep
Gwen De Schepper
Yudai Shimizu
Sherwynn Tiong
Tyler Trudel
Eser Unger
Jonathan Vamos
Alexander Vock
Ward Warren
Bart Wieszok
Jacob Wilson-Kloster
Ryan Wood
Liew Li Xiang
Rachel Tan Xing Hui
© 2019 Legend Story Studios. All Rights Reserved. P.O Box 99428 Newmarket, Auckland 1149, New Zealand. Legend Story Studios and Flesh and Blood, including logos and characters, are property of Legend Story Studios in the USA, EU, UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong and other countries. Patent pending. Flesh and Blood created by James White.
3 Zones
3.0 General
3.0.1 A zone is a collection of objects. There are 15 types of zones: arms, arsenal, banished, chest, combat chain, deck, graveyard, hand, head, hero, legs, permanent, pitch, stack, and weapon.
3.0.1a A zone is considered empty when it does not contain any objects and has no permanents equipped to it. An equipment zone is exposed if it is empty. A zone does not cease to exist if it is empty.
3.0.2 Each player has their own arms, arsenal, banished, chest, deck, graveyard, hand, head, hero, legs, and pitch zones; and has two weapon zones. The stack zone, permanent zone, and combat chain zone are shared by all players.
Note: Cards printed before 2023 have used the phrase "zone you control" which refers to a zone that the player owns.
3.0.3 An object can have one of two possible states of visibility: public, or private. A public object is an object where information about the properties of the object is currently available to all players. A private object is an object where the information about the properties of that object is not currently available to all players.
3.0.3a A player may look at any private object they own, or is in a zone that they own, unless the object is in the deck zone.
3.0.4 A public zone is a zone in which the default visibility of objects is public. A private zone is a zone in which the default visibility of objects is private.
3.0.4a The arms, banished, chest, combat chain, graveyard, head, hero, legs, permanent, pitch, stack, and weapon zones are public zones.
3.0.4b The arsenal, deck, and hand zones are private zones.
3.0.4c A public zone may contain a private object, if the object is made private while in that zone, or if the object is moved into that zone as a private object. The private object remains private until a rule or effect makes it public.
3.0.4d A private zone may contain public objects if the object is made public while in that zone, or if the object is moved into that zone as a public object. The public object remains public until a rule or effect makes it private.
3.0.4e If a rule or effect specifies an object in a public zone, the source must be public for the rule or effect to apply unless otherwise stated.
Example: Tome of Torment has the text "You may play this from your banished zone." If a Tome of Torment is private (face-down) in the banished zone, a public zone, its ability would not apply because it does not explicitly state face-down.
3.0.5 The arena is a collection of all the arms, chest, combat chain, head, hero, legs, permanent, and weapon zones.
3.0.5a The arena is not a zone. If an object would be put into the arena by a rule or effect without specifying a zone, it is placed into the permanent zone as a permanent.
3.0.5b The arsenal, banished, deck, graveyard, hand, pitch, and stack zones are not part of the arena.
3.0.6 The layout and representation of zones and objects in those zones are defined by tournament rules.
3.0.7 When an object moves from one zone to another, the object leaving its old zone (origin) and the object entering its new zone (destination) is performed simultaneously. At no point is the object not in a zone.
3.0.7a The object as it leaves the origin is considered the object moving for rules and effects. If the object is private at its origin and would be private at its destination, it is considered to have no properties for effects.
Example: Levia has the text "If a card with 6 or more {p} has been put into your banished zone this turn, …,". If a card is banished and it has 4{p} as it leaves its origin and 6{p} when it enters the banished zone, it is considered to have 4{p} when it moves zones and does not meet the condition of Levia's effect.
Example: Levia has the text "If a card with 6 or more {p} has been put into your banished zone this turn, …," If a card with 6{p} is banished face-down from the player's hand, it was private at the origin and is private at the destination, so it is considered to have no properties when it moves zones and does not meet the condition of Levia's effect.
3.0.7b If the origin and the destination of a move are the same, then no move occurs. If the object would go from public to private during the move, it just becomes private instead. If the object would go from private to public during the move, it just becomes public instead.
Example: Mark of the Beast has the text "If this would be put into your graveyard from anywhere, instead banish it." If Mark of the Beast is banished face-down, and then an effect tries to put it into the graveyard, it will become face-up and remain in the banished zone. It is still considered the same card as before.
3.0.8 If a private object would move zones and be public at the destination, it becomes public before any further replacement effects are applied and it is moved. If a public object will move zones and be private at the destination, it becomes private before any further replacement effects are applied and it is moved.
Example: Azalea's activated ability puts a card from the deck (private object) into the arsenal face-up (public object in a private zone), therefore it becomes public before it is moved.
Example: Intimidate puts a card from hand (private object) into the banished zone face down (private object in a public zone), therefore it does not become public before it is moved.
3.0.8a If the destination or visibility of the movement of an object is modified, then the visibility of the object is immediately re-evaluated before any further replacement effects are applied and it is moved.
Example: Drone of Brutality has the text "If this would be put into your graveyard from anywhere, instead put it on the bottom of your deck." If Drone of Brutality is discarded (from the private hand zone to the public graveyard zone), the card first becomes a public object, then the replacement effect replaces the destination to be the deck (a private zone), the card becomes a private object, and finally, the cards are moved to the bottom of the deck.
3.0.9 If an object enters a zone that is not in the arena and is not the stack zone, or a public object becomes private while it is not in the arena, it resets - its previous existence ceases to exist and it becomes a new object with no relation to its previous existence.
Example: Endless Arrow is played and during the reaction step, Snapdragon Scalers is activated to give it "go again." Endless Arrow hits and returns to the player's hand (a zone outside the arena) and therefore becomes a new object. If the player plays Endless Arrow again it will not have "go again" because it is a new Endless Arrow card with no relation to its previous existence.
3.0.9a An ability that triggers when an object moves from one zone to another still references the new object, as long as the object remains a public object.
Example: Merciful Retribution has the text "Whenever an aura or attack action card you control is destroyed, … If it's a non-token Light card, put it into your hero's soul." If a non-token Light card in the arena is destroyed, it moves to the graveyard and becomes a new object. However, because Merciful Retribution triggers on the object moving to the graveyard (as part of its destruction) it still references the new object it becomes in that zone for the triggered-layer it produces. If the non-token Light card moves to another zone or becomes private before the layer resolves, the triggered-layer loses that reference.
3.0.9b An ability with an effect that moves an object from one zone to another still references the new object for the remainder of any effects it generates, as long as the object remains a public object.
Example: Bull's Eye Bracers has the text "If you have no cards in your arsenal, you may put an arrow card from your hand face-up into your arsenal. It gets +1{p} until end of turn." If an arrow card is put into the arsenal, it becomes a new object. However, because the activated ability of Bull's Eye Bracers was the source of the effect that moved the arrow card, the rest of the effect still references the new object it became in that zone.
3.0.9c The process of how an object becomes a new object is preserved as the history of that new object.
Example: Slithering Shadowpede has the text "If this was banished from your hand this turn, you may play it from your banished zone." If Slithering Shadowpede is banished from hand, it resets and becomes a new object in the banished zone, but the information regarding where it was banished from is preserved, allowing it to be played from the banished zone this turn.
3.0.10 Zones of the same type are independent of their creation method. If a rule or effect creates a zone of the same type as an existing zone, the created zone is not distinguishable as being created by that rule or effect - only that there is now an additional zone of that type.
3.0.10a If a rule or effect moves an object into a specified type of zone, and there are two or more zones that match the specified type, the player that owns the object chooses which zone that object is moved to.
3.0.10b If the zone of a player ceases to exist, and there is only one of that type of zone owned by the player, any cards in that zone are cleared and the zone ceases to exist.
3.0.10c If the zone of a player ceases to exist, and there are two or more of that type of zone owned by the player, an empty zone of that type owned by the player ceases to exist. If there are no zones of that type owned by the player that are empty, the player chooses which zone will cease to exist - any cards in that zone are cleared and the zone ceases to exist.
3.0.11 If a rule would move an object to a zone that does not exist, or the zone cannot contain that object, the object is cleared instead.[3.0.12] If an effect would move an object to a zone that does not exist, or the zone cannot contain that object, and the object would not cease to exist from another rule or effect, then the move event fails.
Example: Uzuri has the text "… put target attacking card with stealth from the active chain link on the bottom of its owner's deck." If the target attacking card with stealth has the token type, it ceases to exist before it is put on the bottom of the deck.
3.0.12 To clear an object, move it from its current zone to its owner's graveyard.
3.0.12a If the object is a token, macro, or a non-card-layer, it leaves its current zone and simply ceases to exist.
3.0.13 If an effect refers to one or more zones without specifying the owner of those zones (or specifying "any"), it refers to the zones owned by the controller of the effect.
3.0.14 A sub-card is a card that is under a permanent or a card on the stack. A top-card is the card on top, and the sub-card is underneath.
3.0.14a A card is only considered to be under a permanent if specified by a rule or effect.
3.0.14b A sub-card is not considered to be in the arena, even if its top-card is in the arena. If a card becomes a sub-card, it ceases to exist and becomes a new card with no relation to its previous existence.[3.0.9]
3.0.14c If a top-card moves zones and remains the same object, its sub-cards move to the same zone as part of the same event and remain sub-cards. If a top-card becomes a sub-card of another permanent, all of its sub-cards also become sub-cards of that permanent.
3.0.14d If the top-card is public, all sub-cards are also public. If a top-card is private, all sub-cards are also private.
3.0.14e If a top-card ceases to exist, its sub-cards are cleared as part of the same event.[3.0.12]
3.1 Arena
3.1.1 The arena is a collection of all the arms, chest, combat chain, head, hero, legs, permanent, and weapon zones.
3.1.1a The arsenal, banished, deck, graveyard, hand, pitch, and stack zones are not part of the arena.
3.1.2 The arena is not a zone. If an object would be put into the arena by a rule or effect without specifying a zone, it is placed into the permanent zone as a permanent.
3.1.2a A card is considered to be in the arena if it is in any of the arena zones, and it is not a sub-card under permanent.
3.2 Arms
3.2.1 An arms zone is a public equipment zone in the arena, owned by a player.
3.2.2 An arms zone can only contain up to one object which is equipped to that zone.[8.5.41]
3.2.2a An object can only be equipped to an arms zone if it has subtype arms.
3.2.3 A player may equip an arms card to their arms zone at the start of the game.[4.1]
3.3 Arsenal
3.3.1 An arsenal zone is a private zone outside the arena, owned by a player.
3.3.2 An arsenal zone can only contain up to one of its owner's deck-cards.[1.3.2c]
3.3.2a If an effect would put a card into an arsenal zone that is not empty, or into the arsenal and there are no empty arsenal zones, that effect fails.
3.3.3 The term "arsenal" refers to all arsenal zones owned by a player and the cards in those zones.
3.3.3a A player's arsenal is considered empty if all of their arsenal zones are empty.
3.3.3b If a rule or effect would specify a card to move into a player's arsenal, it is moved into one of their empty arsenal zones.
3.3.4 Cards in an arsenal zone may be played.[5.1]
3.4 Banished
3.4.1 A banished zone is a public zone outside the arena, owned by a player.
3.4.2 A banished zone can only contain its owner's cards.
3.5 Chest
3.5.1 A chest zone is a public equipment zone in the arena, owned by a player.
3.5.2 A chest zone can only contain up to one object which is equipped to that zone.[8.5.41]
3.5.2a An object can only be equipped to a chest zone if it has subtype chest.
3.5.3 A player may equip a chest card to their chest zone at the start of the game.[4.1]
3.6 Combat Chain
3.6.1 The combat chain zone is a public zone in the arena. There is only one combat chain zone, shared by all players, and it does not have an owner.
3.6.2 The combat chain zone can only contain cards and attack-proxies.[1.4.3]
3.6.3 The term "combat chain" refers to the combat chain zone.
3.6.4 The combat chain is "open" during combat - otherwise it is "closed."[7]
3.7 Deck
3.7.1 A deck zone is a private zone outside the arena, owned by a player.
3.7.2 A deck zone can only contain its owner's deck-cards.[1.3.2c]
3.7.3 The term "deck" refers to the deck zone.
3.7.4 A player cannot look at objects in their own deck zone unless specified by a rule or effect.
3.7.5 Objects in the deck zone are placed face down in an ordered uniform pile.
3.7.6 A player's starting deck starts the game in their deck zone.[4.1]
3.8 Graveyard
3.8.1 A graveyard zone is a public zone outside the arena, owned by a player.
3.8.2 A graveyard zone can only contain its owner's cards.
3.8.3 The term "graveyard" refers to the graveyard zone.
3.9 Hand
3.9.1 A hand zone is a private zone outside the arena, owned by a player.
3.9.2 A hand zone can only contain its owner's deck-cards.[1.3.2c]
3.9.3 The term "hand" refers to the hand zone.
3.10 Head
3.10.1 A head zone is a public equipment zone in the arena, owned by a player.
3.10.2 A head zone can only contain up to one object which is equipped to that zone.[8.5.41]
3.10.2a An object can only be equipped to a head zone if it has subtype head.
3.10.3 A player may equip a head card to their head zone at the start of the game.[4.1]
3.11 Hero
3.11.1 A hero zone is a public zone in the arena, owned by a player.
3.11.2 A hero zone can only contain one card, with the type hero, and zero or more cards in the hero's soul.
3.11.3 The term "hero" refers to the card with the type hero in the hero zone.
3.11.4 A player must start the game with their hero card in their hero zone.[4.1]
3.11.5 A hero's soul refers to the collection of sub-objects under the hero card.[3.0.14]
3.12 Legs
3.12.1 A legs zone is a public equipment zone in the arena, owned by a player.
3.12.2 A legs zone can only contain up to one object which is equipped to that zone.[8.5.41]
3.12.2a An object can only be equipped to a legs zone if it has subtype legs.
3.12.3 A player may equip a legs card to their legs zone at the start of the game.[4.1]
3.13 Permanent
3.13.1 The permanent zone is a public zone in the arena. There is only one permanent zone, shared by all players, and it does not have an owner.
3.13.2 The permanent zone can only contain permanents.
3.14 Pitch
3.14.1 A pitch zone is a public zone outside the arena, owned by a player.
3.14.2 A pitch zone can only contain its owner's deck-cards.[1.3.2c]
3.15 Stack
3.15.1 The stack zone is a public zone outside the arena. There is only one stack zone, shared by all players, and it does not have an owner.
3.15.2 The term "stack" refers to the stack zone.
3.15.3 The stack contains an ordered collection of layers.[1.6]
3.15.4 When a layer is added onto the stack, it becomes layer N+1 where N is the number of existing layers on the stack.
3.15.5 The top layer of the stack is layer N, with the highest value of N.
3.15.6 When a layer N is removed from the stack by a rule or effect, any layer M where M>N becomes layer M-1.
Example: There are 4 layers on the stack. Layer 2 is an instant card and is removed by a "negate" effect. Layer 3 becomes layer 2, and layer 4 becomes layer 3, while layer 1 remains unchanged.
3.16 Weapon
3.16.1 A weapon zone is a public zone in the arena, owned by a player.
3.16.2 A weapon zone can only contain up to one object which is equipped to that zone.[8.5.41]
3.16.2a An object can only be equipped to a weapon zone if it has the type weapon or the subtype off-hand or quiver. An object with the subtype 2H must be equipped to two weapon zones.[8.2.2]
3.16.3 A player may equip a weapon card or an off-hand card to their weapon zone at the start of the game.[4.1]
4 Game Structure
4.0 General
4.0.1 A game of Flesh and Blood is preceded by the start-of-game procedure and ends when a player wins or the game is a draw.[4.1][4.5]
4.0.2 A match consists of one or more consecutive games between the same players with the same decks.
4.0.3 A turn is a game state concept that structures the order of play and phases.
4.0.3a A turn consists of 3 phases in order: Start Phase, Action Phase, and End Phase.
4.0.3b Only one player can have a turn at any point in time. A player whose turn it is is the "turn-player." A player whose turn it is not is a "non-turn-player."
4.0.3c If an effect would give a player an extra turn, it is taken immediately after the specified turn.
4.1 Starting a Game
4.1.1 The process of starting a game is referred to as the start-of-game procedure. Players do not get priority during the start-of-game procedure.
4.1.2 First, each player places their hero card face up in their hero zone.
4.1.2a If the hero has a meta-static ability that modifies the start of game procedure, the number zones, or the ownership of zones, or the what cards in are placed in zones, that modification is independent of the ability during the game.
Example: Kayo, Underhanded Cheat has the text "You start the game with 1 weapon zone," which means if that the player will go through the start of game procedure and start the game with only 1 weapon zone. During the game, even if Kayo, Underhanded Cheat loses that ability, the player will not gain a weapon zone.
4.1.3 Second, a player is selected and chooses the first-turn-player. If it is the first game of a match, one of the players is selected using a random method that is mutually agreeable. If it is not the first game of a match, the player who lost first in the previous game of the match is the selected player; or if the previous game ended in a draw, the selected player is the same as in the previous game. The select player then chooses any player to be the first-turn-player.
4.1.4 Third, each player selects arena-cards from their card-pool that they will start the game with.[1.3.2d]
4.1.4a A player may select up to one arena-card for each of their arms, chest, head, legs, and weapon zones. Each card will start the game equipped in its respective zone, based on its type and/or subtype.[4.1.8]
4.1.4b Cards selected this way are placed face-down in their respective zones or in a single face-down pile next to the hero. These cards and their number are private to each player until the game begins.
4.1.5 Fourth, each player selects the deck-cards from their card-pool that will become their deck.
4.1.5a Arena-cards cannot be included in a player's deck.
4.1.5b If a meta-static ability effect allows the player to start the game with one or more cards in a zone other than their deck, these cards are selected from their deck and placed face-down in their respective zones or in the single face-down pile next to the hero. The cards selected this way are still considered part of the player's deck. These cards and their number are private to each player until the game begins.
Example: Dash has the text "You may start the game with a Mechanologist item with cost {r}{r} or less in the arena," which means if the game format requires a starting deck of 40 cards, the player may select the specified from those 40 cards, and start the game with 1 card in the arena and 39 cards in their deck zone.
4.1.6 Fifth, all other cards in a player's card-pool that were not selected during [4.1.4] or [4.1.5] become that player's inventory.
4.1.6a An inventory is a defined collection of cards in the game - it is not a zone.
4.1.6b An inventory is private. Players may look at cards in their own inventory during a game but are not required to show any other player.
4.1.6c If one or more cards remaining in the player's card-pool fail to meet the specifications of a rule or effect at the start of the game, those cards are removed from the game and are not considered part of the inventory for the game.
Example: Taylor has the text "Each equipment in your starting inventory must have a different name," which means if there are two or more cards with the same name remaining in the player's card-pool, the first one is included in the player's inventory and the second one is removed from the game.
4.1.7 Sixth, each player shuffles and presents their starting deck to an opponent to be shuffled and/or cut.
4.1.7a After a player has presented their starting deck to be shuffled and/or cut, it is placed in their deck zone and they may no longer change any cards they have chosen in .[4.1.4][4.1.5]
4.1.7b A starting deck is private to each player. The opponent may not look at the information of the cards in a deck presented to them.
4.1.8 Seventh, each player in clockwise order equips their respective weapons and equipment, starting with the first turn-player .[1.1.6][8.5.41] Any other cards that start the game in a zone other than the deck zone are put in their respective zones. The "start of the game" event occurs and effects that trigger at the start of the game are triggered. Layers on the stack resolve and game state actions are performed as if all players are passing priority in succession until the stack is empty.[1.10.2]
4.1.8a If two or more triggered-layers are created, they are added to the stack in an order chosen by the first-turn-player.[6.6.6b]
4.1.8b If an effect would only trigger during a player's turn, it does not trigger during the start-of-game procedure.
Example: Victor has the text "The first time each turn you create a Gold token from an effect you control, draw a card." If a player creates a Gold token from an effect they control during the start-of-game procedure, Victor's effect will not trigger because it is not during a player's turn.
4.1.9 Eighth and finally, each player draws cards up to their hero's intellect and the first turn-player begins their Start Phase.
4.2 Start Phase
4.2.1 Players do not get priority during the Start Phase.
4.2.2 First, the turn starts. Effects that last until the "start of turn" end. The "start of turn" event occurs and effects that trigger at the start of turn are triggered. Layers on the stack resolve and game state actions are performed as if all players are passing priority in succession until the stack is empty.[1.10.2]
4.2.3 Second and finally, the Start Phase ends and the game proceeds to the action phase.
4.3 Action Phase
4.3.1 First, the action phase starts. The "beginning of the action phase" event occurs and effects that trigger at the beginning of the action phase are triggered.
4.3.2 Second, the turn-player has 1 action point.
4.3.2a Effects that trigger when a player gains an action point do not trigger when the turn-player gains an action point this way.
4.3.2b Replacement effects that modify events when a player gains an action point do not modify or replace when the turn-player gains an action point this way.
4.3.3 Third, the turn-player gains priority.
4.3.4 Fourth and finally, when the stack is empty, the combat chain is closed, and both players pass priority in succession, the action phase ends and the game proceeds to the End Phase.
4.4 End Phase
4.4.1 Players do not get priority during the End Phase.
4.4.2 First, the "beginning of the end phase" event occurs and effects that trigger at the beginning of the end phase are triggered. Layers on the stack resolve and game state actions are performed as if all players are passing priority in succession until the stack is empty..[1.10.2]
4.4.3 Second, the end-of-turn procedure occurs. After each step in the end-of-turn procedure, if a triggered effect has triggered, the triggered-layers are added to the stack; then layers on the stack resolve and game state actions are performed as if all players are passing priority in succession until the stack is empty. The end-of-turn procedure happens in the following order:
4.4.3a All allies' life totals are reset to their base life, modified by any counters on the object.
4.4.3b The turn-player may put a card from their hand face-down into an empty arsenal zone they own.
4.4.3c Each player puts all cards in their pitch zone (if any) on the bottom of their deck in any order. The order cards are put on the bottom of the deck this way is hidden information.
4.4.3d The turn-player uptaps all permanents they control. [1.3.3b][8.5.56]
4.4.3e All players lose all action points and resource points.
4.4.3f The turn-player draws cards until the number of cards in their hand is equal to their hero's intellect {i}. If it is the first turn of the game, all other players draw cards until the number of cards in their hand is equal to their hero's intellect {i}. If a player already has at least that many cards in their hand, they do not draw any cards this way.[8.5.6]
4.4.4 Third and finally, the turn ends. Effects that last until the "until end of turn" and "this turn" end. The next player in clockwise order becomes the new turn-player.[1.1.6] The new turn-player begins their Start Phase.
4.5 Ending a Game
4.5.1 A game ends immediately when a player wins, or the game is a draw.
4.5.1a If a player loses a game, and the game does not end, all objects the player controls are cleared, and then all objects owned by the player are removed from the game. The player and their hero cease to exist for the remainder of the game. Layer-continuous effects controlled by the player continue to exist until they expire.
Example: A player controls an attack action card on the combat chain and a triggered-layer on the stack. An opponent controls a Frostbite (a token-card) and a Frost Hex (a deck-card) owned by the player. If the player loses the game at this point, the attack is cleared to their graveyard and the triggered-layer ceases to exist on the stack, and then everything the player owns (including the Frostbite and Frost Hex) are removed from the game.
4.5.2 A player can win the game in the following ways:
4.5.2a A player wins the game if all of their opponents have lost the game.
4.5.2b A player wins the game if an effect states that they win the game.
4.5.3 A player can lose the game in the following ways:
4.5.3a A player loses the game if their hero's life total is reduced to zero or they do not control a hero.
4.5.3b A player loses the game if an effect states that they lose the game.
4.5.3c A player loses the game if they concede.
4.5.4 The game can be a draw for the remaining players in the following ways:
4.5.4a The game is a draw for the remaining players if all remaining players' hero's life totals are simultaneously reduced to zero.
Example: There are 2 remaining players. One player plays and resolves Forked Lightning, targeting both themselves and their opponent. Neither player prevents any arcane damage and both their life totals are simultaneously reduced to zero, resulting in a draw.
4.5.4b The game is a draw for the remaining players if an effect states that the game is a draw.
4.5.4c The game is a draw for the remaining players if all remaining players agree to an intentional draw. The remaining players can agree to a draw at any time.
4.5.4d The game is a draw for the remaining players if a stalemate occurs. A stalemate happens when no remaining player can legally advance the game state toward ending the game.
Example: There are 2 remaining players. Both players only have a Cracked Bauble in their hand, no cards in the arena, or cards in their deck, arsenal, or banished zone. Both players control a weapon without an attack ability or an ability that would reduce life totals, so they have no way of advancing the game state to a conclusion. Therefore the game ends in a draw because both players are stalemated.
4.5.4e The game is a draw for the remaining players if a deadlock occurs. A deadlock happens when all remaining players refuse to legally advance the game state toward ending the game.
Example: There are 2 remaining players on 1 life total. Both players only have Invert Existence and a Cracked Bauble in their hand, no equipment, weapon, or cards in their deck, arsenal, or banished zone. The first person to play Invert Existence will lose the game because the opposing player can respond with their Invert Existence which will resolve first and give them the win. Therefore the game ends in a draw because both players are deadlocked.
5 Layers, Cards, & Abilities
5.0 General
5.1 Playing Cards
5.1.1 To play a card is to move it to the stack as a card-layer.[1.6.2a] Only a card's owner can play it unless otherwise specified by a rule or effect. Playing a card involves the following steps in order: Announce, Declare Costs, Declare Modes and Targets, Check Legal Play, Calculate Asset-Costs, Pay Asset-Costs, Calculate Effect-Costs, Pay Effect-Costs, and Play.
5.1.1a A player can only play cards from their hand or arsenal zones unless otherwise specified by a rule or effect.
5.1.2 Announce: First, the player proposes the card to be played. The card moves to the stack zone under that player's control and becomes the topmost layer of the stack.
5.1.2a Effects that apply to the next card played are applied if the card matches the effect description. Effects that are dependent on any undetermined parameters of the card are applied when those parameters are declared.
Example: There are three continuous effects active: "The next attack action card you play gains +3{p}," "Action cards cost {r} less to play," and "Attack action cards you control have +3{p}." When an attack action card is proposed to be played and is moved to the stack under the player's control, all three effects begin to apply immediately.
Example: Goliath Gauntlet has the text "The next attack action card with cost 2 or greater you play this turn gets +2{p}." If you play an attack action card with a cost of X, at the time you declare the value of X to be 2 or more, Goliath Gauntlet's effect will apply. If you declare X to be 0 or 1, Goliath Gauntlet will not apply.
5.1.2b A card may only be announced to be played if a rule or existing effect allows it to be played.
Example: Tome of Torment has the text "You may play this from your banished zone." which is a play-static ability that when functional, allows it to be played from the banished zone. If Tome of Torment is private (face-down) in the banished zone, its play-static ability is not functional and therefore it cannot be announced to be played.
5.1.2c If the card is a split-card, the player declares which side the split-card will be played with.[9.2.3] If the split-card has meld[8.3.38] the player may declare that the card is played with both sides. The declared side(s) determines the card's properties when put onto the stack and any subsequent effects applied to it.
Example: A player may play Null||Shock by declaring one of its sides (Null or Shock), or by declaring both sides using meld. Doing so determines the name, types, and abilities of the card on the stack until it ceases to exist.
5.1.3 Declare Method and Costs: Second, the player declares the method in which the card is being played and the parameters for any costs to play the card.
5.1.3a If the card has a variable cost that includes X, the player must declare the value of X.[1.12.2] If the player uses an effect to play the card without paying the cost that includes X, then the player must declare X as 0.
5.1.3b If the card has additional costs that are optional, the player must declare all additional costs that will be paid.
5.1.3c If the card has an alternative cost or an effect that allows the player to play the card without paying the cost, the player must declare if the alternative cost will be paid or the effect will be used. If a card has two or more alternative costs and/or effects that allow the player to play the card without paying the cost, the player may only declare one (if any) of these.
5.1.3d If the card may be played through the use of two or more rules and/or effects, the player must declare which of one these rules or effects is being used to play the card. Effects that are not declared this way are considered not to have been used to play the card.
Example: Astral Etchings "If you control a Spectral Shield, you may play this as though it were an instant." If a player controls a Spectral Shield and plays Astral Etchings, they declare whether or not Astral Etchings is being played as an instant.
Example: Blasmophet, Levia Consumed has the text "Once each turn, you may play a card with blood debt from your banished zone." If a player plays a card with blood debt from their banished zone without using Blasmophet, Levia Consumed's effect, then they may still use that effect to play a different card with blood debt from their banished zone that turn.
5.1.3e If there are two or more effect-costs to be paid, the player declares the order those costs will be paid.
5.1.4 Declare Modes and Targets: Third, the player declares the parameters of all resolution abilities.
5.1.4a If the card has any modal resolution abilities, the player must declare the modes for those abilities.[1.7.5] Then, if any resolution abilities generate effects that require a target, the player must declare all legal targets for those effects.[1.8.5]
5.1.4b If the card is an attack, the player must declare the target(s) of the attack.[1.4.5]
5.1.5 Check Legal Play: Fourth, the card is evaluated if it is legal to play before any costs are paid. If a rule or effect prevents the card from being played, or the parameters of the proposed card are illegal, the card is illegal to play and the game state is reversed to before the card was announced.[1.10.3]
5.1.6 Calculate Asset-Costs: Fifth, all asset-costs of the proposed card are calculated.[1.13]
5.1.6a First, rules define the starting asset-cost. Second, effects that set an asset-cost are applied. Third, effects that increase an asset-cost are applied. Fourth and finally, effects that reduce an asset-cost are applied - if an effect would reduce an asset-cost to be less than zero, it instead reduces it to zero. If two or more effects are applied at each step, then they are applied in timestamp order.[6.3.4]
5.1.6b The action asset-cost starts at zero. If the card has the type action and is not played as an instant, the action cost starts at one instead.
5.1.6c The resource asset-cost starts at the base resource cost of a card being played. If an alternative cost is declared that replaces the resource asset-cost for playing the card, then the resource asset-cost starts at zero instead.
5.1.7 Pay Asset-Costs: Sixth, the player pays all asset-costs (if any).[1.14.2]
5.1.7a If any asset-cost is not paid in full, the card is illegal to play and the game state is reversed to before the card is announced.[1.10.3]
5.1.8 Calculate Effect-Costs: Seventh, all effect-costs of the proposed cards are calculated.
5.1.8a If any effect-cost cannot be paid, based on the order declared by the player, the card is illegal to play and the game state is reversed to before the card was announced.[1.10.3]
5.1.9 Pay Effect-Costs: Eighth, the player pays all effect-costs.
5.1.9a If a replacement effect modifies an effect-cost, and that cost cannot be paid (the effect does not resolve successfully), the card can still be played.
5.1.10 Play: Ninth and finally, the card is now considered played and the player regains priority.
5.2 Activated Abilities
5.2.1 An activated ability is an ability that can be activated to put an activated-layer on the stack. Activated abilities are always written in the format "[LIMIT?] [TYPE] -- [COST]: [ABILITIES] [CONDITION?]."
5.2.1a The LIMIT (if any) is written at the start of the ability and specifies the maximum number of times the ability can be activated. If there is no limit, the ability can be activated any number of times.
5.2.1b The TYPE is written directly before the dash and specifies the type of the ability and the type of the activated-layer created by activating the ability.
5.2.1c The COST is written between the dash and colon. It specifies the cost to be paid to activate the ability. A cost of "0" specifies the resource cost to activate the ability is zero.
5.2.1d The ABILITIES are written after the colon and specify the base abilities of the activated-layer. When the activated-layer resolves, the resolution abilities of the layer generate effects.
5.2.1e The CONDITION (if any) is written at the end of the ability and specifies the activation condition. If the activated ability has an activation condition and that condition is not met, the ability cannot be activated.
5.2.2 To activate an activated ability is to create an activated-layer on the stack. A player can only activate an activated ability if they have priority, the ability is functional,[1.7.4] and the player controls its source (or owns its source if there is no controller), unless otherwise specified by a rule or effect. Activating an activated ability involves the following:
5.2.2a Announce the activated ability to be activated. The activated-layer is created in the stack zone under that player's control and becomes the topmost layer of the stack. The activated-layer is created with the same supertypes and types as the source of the activated ability. Continuous effects begin to apply to the ability layer.
5.2.2b The remainder of the process for activating an activated ability is identical to the process for playing a card listed in steps [5.1.3]-[5.1.10], substituting "play" for 'activate`, and "card" for "ability."
5.2.3 If an effect allows an ability to be activated additional times, that activated ability may be activated to exceed its LIMIT by the specified amount of times.
5.2.3a If an effect allows all abilities on an object to be activated additional times and the object has two or more activated abilities, each activated ability of that object can be activated additional times.
Example: Snap Shot has the text "… you may activate abilities of bows you control an additional time this turn and as though they were an instant," which allows each individual activated ability on bows the player controls to be activated an additional time.
5.2.3b If an effect allows an object to be activated additional times and the object has two or more activated abilities, the effect applies at the time the ability is activated beyond its LIMIT. The total number of additional activations may be spread across all activated abilities on the object.
Example: Tri-shot has the text "You may activate target bow you control 2 additional times this turn," which allows the activated abilities on the target bow to be activated a combined total of 2 additional times.
5.2.3c If an effect allows a source to attack additional times, it refers to activating an ability on the source with the attack ability[8.3.1] or attack effect.[8.5.38]
Example: Twinning Blade has the text "You may attack an additional time with target sword this turn," which allows the player to activate an activated ability (with the attack ability/effect) on the target sword an additional time past its LIMIT.
5.2.3d Effects that allow the additional activation of an activated ability are additive. If two or more effects would allow an activated ability to be activated beyond its LIMIT, the player chooses which of those effects apply to the activation.
5.2.3e Effects that state how many times an ability can be activated in total, set the LIMIT of the activated ability (or the total number of times that all activated abilities), which can be surpassed by effects that allow the ability to be activated additional times.
Example: Blood on Her Hands has the text "… Target 1H weapon may attack twice this turn," which is an effect that sets the total number of times an activated ability (with the attack effect) can be activated on the target to two. If this effect is applied two or more times, the activated ability (with the attack effect) can still only be activated twice.
5.2.4 If an activated ability's cost can only be paid when the source is private, or if its activation condition specifies the privacy status and/or zone of its source, the ability is functional when the source meets that requirement.
5.2.4a If an activated ability is functional, but its source has no controller, then the owner may activate the ability instead.
Example: Vigorous Windup has the text "Instant -- Discard this: Create a Vigor token." This ability is functional while the card is in its owner's hand. The owner may activate the ability despite not controlling the source.
5.2.4b If a player activates an ability of a private source, the source of the ability becomes public until either the activated-layer resolves or ceases to exist, or the source ceases to exist. When an object becomes public this way, it does not trigger any abilities and cannot be replaced by any replacement effects.
5.3 Resolution Abilities & Resolving Layers
5.3.1 A resolution ability is an ability that generates effects when its source resolves as a layer on the stack. If the stack is not empty and all players pass in succession, the top layer of the stack resolves, except the Layer Step of combat .[7.1] When a layer resolves it does so in the following order: Check resolution, Static effects, Layer effects, Go again, Leave stack, Clear.
5.3.2 Check resolution: First, whether the layer fails to resolve is evaluated. If a layer fails to resolve, the resolution stops, the layer is cleared from the stack, and the turn-player gains priority. A layer fails to resolve in the following situations:
5.3.2a If the layer is a triggered-layer created by a triggered effect with a state-trigger condition, the state-trigger condition must be met by the current game state - otherwise, the layer fails to resolve.
Example: An attack with phantasm is defended by an attack action card with 6{p}. Before the phantasm triggered-layer effect resolves, the attacking hero plays Blinding Beam, giving the defending card -2{p}. When the phantasm triggered-layer resolves, the game state condition that caused phantasm to trigger is no longer true, therefore the phantasm triggered-layer fails to resolve and does not generate any effects.
5.3.2b If the layer is a defense reaction card and it cannot become a defending card on the current chain link, the layer fails to resolve.
5.3.3 Static effects: Second, static abilities of the layer become functional.[1.7.4]
5.3.4 Layer effects: Third, each of the resolution abilities of the layer generates its effects in the order specified (except go again).
5.3.4a If the parameters of any effect are undetermined, those parameters are determined before the effect is generated.[1.8.6]
5.3.4b If an effect fails, any remaining effects continue to be generated.[1.8.9]
5.3.4c If the layer no longer exists after the generation of an effect, the last known information of the layer is used to determine the remainder of the resolution abilities and the effects that are generated.[1.2.3]
5.3.4d If the layer is melded[8.3.38] and it is its first time being resolved, only the right-side resolution abilities generate their effects, then resolution stops and the turn-player gains priority; if it is the second time is being resolved, only the left-side resolution abilities generate their effects, then resolution continues.
5.3.5 Go again: Fourth, if the layer has go again, the controlling player gains 1 action point.[8.3.5]
5.3.5a If the layer no longer exists, the last known information of the layer is used to determine whether the layer had go again.[1.2.3]
5.3.6 Leave stack: Fifth, if a rule or effect would cause the layer to leave the stack, it does so.
5.3.6a A card-layer that becomes a permanent is moved to the arena.[8.2.4][8.2.13][8.2.5][8.2.9]
5.3.6b A card-layer with the type defense reaction becomes a defending card active chain link.[8.1.3]
5.3.7 Clear: Sixth and finally, if the layer is still on the stack, it is cleared,[3.0.12] then the turn-player gains priority.
5.4 Static Abilities
5.4.1 A static ability is an ability that generates effects without resolving a layer on the stack. Static abilities are written as statements.
5.4.2 Static abilities that are functional generate static continuous effects.[6.2.3]
5.4.3 A meta-static ability is a static ability that generates effects that apply to the rules outside of the game.
5.4.3a If a meta-static ability that modifies rules outside the game ceases to exist during a game, it does not affect the legality of the rules followed outside the game.
Example: Shiyana, Diamond Gemini has the text "You may have specialization cards of any hero in your deck." If the player controlling Shiyana has specialization cards in their card-pool, and Shiyana lost this meta static ability during a game, having specialization cards in the card-pool is still legal.
5.4.4 A play-static ability is a static ability that generates effects that apply to the playing of its source card.
5.4.4a An additional-cost ability is a play-static ability that adds one or more asset-costs and/or effect-costs to play the source card. Additional-cost abilities are typically written in the format "As an additional cost to play this [COST]," where COST is the additional cost to be paid. An additional-cost ability is optional if the COST of the ability uses the term "may" and must be declared when playing a card.[5.1.3]
5.4.4b An alternative-cost ability is a play-static ability that replaces one or more asset-costs and/or effect-costs to play the source card. Alternative-cost abilities are typically written in the format "You may [COST] rather than pay this's [BASE]," where COST is the alternative cost to be paid instead of the cards BASE asset-costs and/or effect-costs. Alternative-cost abilities are optional and must be declared when playing a card.[5.1.3] An alternative cost has no effect on any additional costs that must be paid or modifications to the asset-cost.
5.4.4c If a play-static ability generates a triggered effect that references the playing of its source, the effect triggers immediately if the trigger condition is met. Triggered effects of play-static abilities are typically written in the format "[EFFECT]. When you do, [ABILITIES]," where the trigger condition is playing the card using the preceding effect of the play-static ability.[5.5]
Note: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "[COST]. If you do, [ABILITIES]," where ABILITIES generate one or more discrete effects.
5.4.4d If a play-static ability generates a conditional continuous effect that references the playing of its source, the effect is generated at the time the condition is met. Conditional continuous effects of play-static abilities are typically written in the format "[EFFECT]. If you do, [CONTINUOUSEFFECT]," where the replacement condition is playing the card using the proceeding effect of the play-static ability.
5.4.5 A property-static ability is a static ability that defines the property, or value of a property, on an object that would normally be found elsewhere on that object.
Example: Mutated Mass has the text "This card's {p} and {d} are equal to twice the number of cards in your pitch zone with different costs," which is a property-static ability that defines the power and defense of the card, otherwise printed on the card with (c).
5.4.5a Property-static abilities function anywhere in and outside the game.
5.4.6 A triggered-static ability is a static ability that generates a single triggered effect.[5.5]
5.4.6a If the source of a triggered-static ability ceases to exist from an event that would trigger its effect, and the ability was functional immediately before the event occurs, then the triggered effect is triggered.
Example: Merciful Retribution has the text "Whenever an aura or attack action card you control is destroyed, deal 1 arcane damage to target hero." If Merciful Retribution is in the arena under the control of a player and is destroyed, its triggered effect will trigger, because the destruction event of Merciful Retribution is also the condition of the effect.
5.4.7 A while-static ability is a static ability with a condition that makes it functional under specified circumstances. While-conditional abilities are written in the format "While [CONDITION], [ABILITY]" or "If [CONDITION], while [CONDITION], [ABILITY]," where the ABILITY is the static ability that is functional whenever the CONDITION is met.
Example: Yinti Yanti has the text "While this is defending and you control an aura, it gets +1{d}," which is a while-static ability that is functional when it is a non-permanent defending card because it has a while-condition that is met when the card is defending.
5.4.7a A while-static ability is functional when its while-condition is met and when its source is public, when its source is private if the while-condition explicitly specifies it, or when its source is private and the while-condition specifies it functions in that private zone. Otherwise, a while-static ability is not functional.
Example: Heave is a while-static ability that means "While this is in your hand, …," where the while condition specifies the source being in a zone that is private by default. This means that Heave is functional when its source is private in the player's hand.
Example: Blood Debt is a while-static ability that means "While this is in your banished zone, …," where the while-condition specifies the source being in a zone that is public by default. This means that Blood Debt is not functional when its source is private in the player's banished zone.
5.4.7b A hidden triggered ability is both a while-static ability and triggered-static ability, where the while-condition specifies that the source is private or in a private zone. If the triggered condition is met while the ability is functional and the source is private, the owner may decide to trigger the effect. If they do, the source of the ability becomes public and the triggered effect produces a triggered-layer to be added to the stack. The source remains public until the triggered-layer resolves or otherwise ceases to exist, and then it returns to being private.
Example: The Librarian has the text "While The Librarian is face down in arsenal, at the start of your turn, you may turn him face up," which is a hidden triggered ability that is functional when The Librarian is face down in arsenal and the start of turn event occurs. The player decides to trigger the effect, The Librarian becomes public, and when its triggered-layer resolves it is officially turned face up in the arsenal.
6 Effects
6.0 General
6.1 Discrete Effects
6.1.1 A discrete effect is an effect that changes the game state by producing an event.[1.9] Discrete effects have no duration, and after the completion of their event, they have no further influence to the game state.
6.1.2 Discrete effects are atomic. If two or more discrete effects would be generated, they are generated and produce their event one at a time.
Example: Sand Sketched Plan has the text "Search your deck for a card, put it into your hand, discard a random card, then shuffle your deck," which is a resolution ability that generates four atomic discrete effects: search[8.5.19], put[8.5.15], discard [8.5.5], and shuffle[8.5.20]. Each effect is generated and produces an event before the next one in order is generated.
6.1.3 If a discrete effect is conditional,[1.8.4] its condition is evaluated only once, at the time the effect would be generated. If the condition is met, the effect is generated - otherwise, it is not.
6.2 Continuous Effects
6.2.1 A continuous effect modifies the state and properties of objects, and/or the rules of the game. Continuous effects either have a lasting influence effect on the game state, and continue for their specified duration, or for as long as their source ability is functional.
6.2.2 A layer-continuous effect is a continuous effect generated by the resolution of a layer. Layer continuous effects typically have a specified duration.
6.2.2a A layer-continuous effect starts as soon it is generated and ends after a specified duration or when it is not longer applicable. A specified duration is fixed at the time the effect is generated and does not change once generated. If no duration is explicitly specified by the effect and the effect is not explicitly dependent on a condition, the effect ends at the end of the turn it was generated.
Example: Stasis Cell has the text "… activated abilities of target equipment can't be activated until the end of its controller's next turn." which is a layer-continuous effect that has a duration until the end of the current controller's next turn. If the controller of the equipment changes, the duration of the effect does not change.
Example: Chains of Eminence has the text "… name a card. The named card can't be pitched, played, or defend while this is in the arena." which is a layer-continuous effect that has a dependence on Chains of Eminence being in the arena. The effect will end only when Chains of Eminence is not in the arena.
Example: Tempest Aurora has the text "The next card you play this turn with cost 0 and an arcane damage effect, instead deals that much arcane damage plus 1." which is a layer-continuous effect that has no explicit duration or dependence on a condition. If a player plays Tempest Aurora and Sigil of Aether, the the effect will only apply to the Sigil of Aether until the end of the current turn and will not affect its arcane damage in subsequent turns.
6.2.2b If a layer-continuous effect has variable values (such as X), the values of those variables are determined when the continuous effect is generated and do not change thereafter. If the effect is a continuous effect that applies to an object that does not yet exist, the variables are determined when the effect first applies to an object and do not change thereafter.
Example: Tear Limb from Limb has the text "… the next Brute attack action card you play this turn gets +X{p}, where X is its base {p}," which is a layer-continuous effect where X is determined at the time the effect first starts to apply to an object, not when it is first generated.
6.2.2c If a layer-continuous effect starts to apply to an object, it continues to apply to that object even if the properties of that object change.
Example: Cut Deep has the text "Your next dagger attack this turn gets +4{p}." If the player plays Cut Deep, then Kiss of Death (a dagger attack action card), and finally Take Up the Mantle turning the Kiss of Death into a non-dagger attack; even though it does not have the dagger type anymore, the effect of Cut Deep still applies to the object.
6.2.2d If a layer-continuous effect is conditional on being generated,[1.8.4] its condition is evaluated only once, at the time the effect would be generated. If the condition is met, the effect is generated - otherwise, it is not. If the effect is conditional on being applied, the condition is still checked continuously.[1.8.4c]
6.2.3 A static-continuous effect is a continuous effect generated by a static ability. Static-continuous effects never have a specified duration.
6.2.3a A static-continuous effect starts as soon as the static ability that generated it becomes functional and ends when the static ability becomes non-functional.[1.7.4]
6.2.3b If a static-continuous effect has variable values (such as X), the value of those variables are determined based on the current game state and are updated if the game state changes.
6.2.3c A static-continuous effect only applies to an object while it has the properties described by the effect - if the properties of an object change, the static effect may no longer apply to that object.
6.2.3d If a static-continuous effect is conditional on being generated,[1.8.4] its condition is evaluated at all times. The effect is generated when the condition is met and ceases to exist when the condition is not met.
Example: Luminaris has the text "If there is a yellow card in your pitch zone, Illusionist attacks you control have go again," which is a conditional static-continuous effect that only exists when there is a card with a yellow color strip in the controlling player's pitch zone and does not exist otherwise.
6.2.4 If a continuous effect would only apply to a future object that is yet to exist, it starts to apply to the next object that meets the specification of the effect.
Example: Come to Fight has the text "The next attack action card you play this turn gains +3{p}," which is a layer-continuous effect that applies to the next attack action card the player plays after the generation of the effect.
6.2.5 The first time a continuous effect applies to an object, or when a continuous effect changes how it modifies an object, it applies as an event which can be modified by replacement effects and trigger triggered effects. Each application of a continuous effect is considered a separate event.
Example: Talisman of Featherfoot has the text "When an attack you control gains exactly +1{p} from an effect during the reaction step." If an attack has 0 base power and is affected by a -1{p} continuous effect, then it is affected by a new +2{p} effect during the reaction step, Talisman of Featherfoot would not trigger because an effect of exactly +1{p} has not been applied during the reaction step.
6.2.5a If two or more effects would apply to an object at the same time, they are applied in the order determined staging..[6.3.1]
Example: Flourish has the text "The next time an attack would gain {p} this turn, instead it gains that much plus 3." If there are two static continuous effects that increase {p} and would apply to an object at the same time, the player chooses the order of those effects and thus which one is modified by Flourish's replacement effect.
6.3 Continuous Effect Interactions
6.3.1 Continuous effects that modify the rules of the game are applied simultaneously before continuous effects that modify objects. If there are two or more continuous effects that modify the state and/or properties of objects in the game, the effects are applied using the staging system. These effects are grouped into stages and are applied in ascending stage order, then if there are two or more effects in the same stage, the effects are applied using substage order, then timestamp order.
Example: Hypothermia has the text "Attacks you control can't gain go again," which is a continuous effect that modifies the rules of the game and is applied before any effects would add the go again ability to an attack you control.
6.3.2 Stage order is defined by how an effect applies to the object. Effects are grouped into stages and are applied in ascending stage order. If there are two or more effects in the same stage, the effects are applied using substage order.[6.3.3]
Stage 1: Effects that modify copyable properties are applied.[8.5.25]
Stage 2: Effects that modify or are dependent on the controller are applied.
Stage 3: Effects that modify or are dependent on name, color strip, or text box are applied.
Stage 4: Effects that modify or are dependent on types or subtypes are applied.
Stage 5: Effects that modify or are dependent on supertypes are applied.
Stage 6: Effects that modify or are dependent on abilities are applied.
Stage 7: Effects that modify or are dependent on the base values of numeric properties are applied.
Stage 8: Effects and counters that modify or are dependent on the values of numeric properties are applied.
6.3.2a An effect is dependent on a stage if the application of another effect in that stage would have changed the first application of this effect, and that stage is higher than or equal to the stage for this effect. An effect is independent if it is not dependent on any stages. Dependent effects are applied in the stage on which they are dependent.
Example: Thump has the text "If this card's {p} is greater than its base, it gets dominate and "When this hits a hero, they discard a card."" which is an effect that is dependent on the value of the power {p} numerical property (stage 8) and affects the object's abilities (stage 6). Because effects in stage 8 can change the application of Thump's effect, and stage 8 is higher than stage 6, Thump's effect is considered dependent and is applied in stage 8 (substage 7).
6.3.2b If an effect is dependent on two or more stages, it is applied at the highest of all those stages.
6.3.2c If separate parts of an effect are applied in different stages, the separate parts of the effect each apply in their respective stages.
6.3.3 Substage order is used if there are two or more effects in the same stage and is defined by the dependence and type of modification within each stage. For stages 1--6, substage order is used to apply independent effects before dependent effects. For stages 7--8, effects are grouped into the following substages and are applied in ascending substage order.
Substage 1: All effects that add/remove a numerical property to/from the object are applied.
Substage 2: Independent effects that set the value of a numerical property are applied.
Substage 3: Independent effects that multiply the value of a numerical property are applied.
Substage 4: Independent effects that divide the value of a numerical property are applied.
Substage 5: Independent effects that add to the value of a numerical property are applied.
Substage 6: Independent effects that subtract from the value of a numerical property are applied.
Substage 7: Dependent effects are applied.
6.3.3a If there are two or more effects in the same substage, the effects are applied using timestamp order.[6.3.4]
6.3.4 Timestamp order is used when there are two or more effects in the same substage and is defined by the timestamp of when an effect was first generated. Effects are applied in chronological timestamp order. If there are two or more effects with the same timestamp, the order is determined by the turn-player.
6.3.4a The timestamp of an effect is the moment it was generated by an ability. Layer-continuous effects are generated when their source resolves as a layer on the stack[6.2.2] and static-continuous effects are generated when the static ability becomes functional.[6.2.3]
6.3.4b If two or more effects start to apply to an object at the same time the turn-player decides the order that effects apply. This decided order is only used to determine the order of effects with the same timestamps. Once a player has decided the order of effects, the order cannot be changed.
6.3.4c When a new effect is applied to an object in a given substage of ordered effects, that effect is ordered after the existing effects in that substage.
6.3.5 Continuous effects are applied dynamically. If a new effect would apply, an effect no longer applies, or an effect that is already applied is modified, all of the effects are recalculated automatically in stage order.
6.3.5a If an object is modified by an effect that would make it eligible/ineligible for another effect in the current or future stage/substage, that effect is added/removed to the set of effects to be applied in that stage/substage.
Example: Minnowism has the text "The next attack action card with 3 or less base {p} you play this turn gets +3{p}," which is a layer-continuous effect applied in stage 8. If an attack action card with 6 base power is played, and its base power is reduced to 3 in stage 7, it becomes eligible for the application of Minnowism's effect, which will be added and applied later in stage 8.
6.3.5b If an object is modified by an effect that would make it applicable to another effect in a previous stage/substages, that other effect is not retroactively applied.
6.3.6 Continuous effects that remove a property, or part of a property, from an object do not remove properties, or parts of properties, that were added by another effect.
Example: Erase Face has the text "When this hits a hero, cards they own lose all class and talent types until the end of their next turn," which removes any existing class and talent supertypes of the object, but does not remove or prevent the addition of class and talent supertypes gained from other effects, such as Brand with Cinderclaw.
6.3.7 Continuous effects only prevent properties, or parts of properties, from being added, removed, or otherwise modified if they explicitly specify.
Example: Hypothermia has the text "Attacks you control can't gain go again," which prevents effects from adding the go again ability to the object, but does not remove the go again ability if it is a base ability of the object.
6.4 Replacement Effects
6.4.1 A replacement effect is a type of effect that replaces an event with a modified event. A replacement effect typically specifies the conditions for the event to be replaced and the partial or full replacement.
6.4.1a A sub-event is an event that may occur when a replacement effect replaces an event. Sub-events occur when the event is replaced, before the original event, and may also be replaced by replacement effects.
Example: Ward 1 is a replacement effect that destroys its source and prevents 1 damage. The destruction of its source is a sub-event that occurs before the event of damage is dealt.
6.4.2 A replacement effect is considered active if an event is about to occur that can be replaced by the effect.
6.4.2a The condition of replacement and any variable values are determined each time a replacement effect could be applied to an event.
Example: Arcanite Fortress has the text "Spellvoid X, where X is the number of equipment you control with Arcanite in their name." The value of X for Spellvoid is determined each time the replacement effect of Spellvoid could be applied. If another replacement effect is applied first, the value of X is recalculated before Spellvoid can be applied.
6.4.3 A replacement effect must exist before an event occurs to replace it. If a replacement effect is generated after an event occurs, it does not retroactively replace that event.
6.4.4 A replacement effect can replace an event that has been modified by another replacement effect, as long as the effect is active for that modified event.
6.4.5 A replacement effect can only replace an event once per original event. It cannot replace its own modified event, or any further modified events produced by other replacement effects if it has already replaced the event.
6.4.6 If an event is replaced with a modified event, the event does not occur and the modified event occurs instead. The modified event may cause other replacement effects to be active that would not have been active for the replaced event. If the modified event occurs, it may trigger effects that the replaced event would not have triggered.
6.4.7 A self-replacement effect is a replacement effect that applies to a preceding effect generated by either the same ability or a leading connected ability.[1.7.6] A self-replacement effect is typically written in the format "[EFFECT]. [CONDITION], instead [MODIFICATION]," where EFFECT (if any) is the preceding effect the replacement applies to, CONDITION specifies the replacement condition, and MODIFICATION specifies the partial or full replacement of the event created by the preceding effect.
Example: Tome of Divinity has the text "Draw 2 cards. If a card has been put into your soul this turn, instead draw 3 cards." This is a discrete effect and self-replacement effect. When the card resolves on the stack, if the player has put a card into their hero's soul this turn, the self-replacement effect replaces the event of drawing 2 cards with drawing 3 cards.
6.4.7a A self-replacement effect does not modify any event other than the event created by the proceeding effect on its source, or the effect of the leading connected ability.
6.4.7b The condition of a self-replacement effect is evaluated at the time the preceding effect is generated. If the condition is dependent on any undetermined parameters of the preceding effect, it is evaluated at the time those parameters are determined.
Example: Weave Earth has the text "The next Earth or Elemental attack action card you play this turn gets +3 {p}. If it's fused, instead it gets +4{p}." the latter of which is a self-replacement effect with a condition that is dependent on the parameters of a future card. When an Earth or Elemental attack action card is played later that turn, the parameter of whether it is fused is determined, the condition of the self-replacement effect is evaluated, and the self-replacement effect may be applied.
6.4.8 An identity-replacement effect is a replacement effect. Identity-replacement effects are typically written in the format "As [CONDITION] [MODIFICATION]," or "[CONDITION] (as/with) [MODIFICATION]," where CONDITION describes an event, typically an object entering the arena, and MODIFICATION describes the modifications to the event.
Example: Hyper Driver has the text "This enters the arena with 3 steam counters." This is an identity-replacement effect where the condition is the Hyper Driver entering the arena and the modification is that it enters the arena with 3 steam counters on it.
6.4.8a An identity-replacement effect that modifies the properties of the specified object defines its copyable properties.
6.4.9 A standard-replacement effect is a continuous replacement effect. A standard-replacement effect is typically written in the format "(If / The next) [CONDITION], instead [MODIFICATION]," where CONDITION specifies the condition for the replacement effect to be active, and MODIFICATION describes the modifications to the effect before it occurs.
Note: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "(When / Whenever) [CONDITION] instead [EFFECT]."
6.4.10 A prevention effect is a replacement effect that replaces a damage event with a modified event. Prevention effects are typically written in a format "[CONDITION?] prevent [PREVENTION]," where the CONDITION (if any) specifies the replacement condition, and PREVENTION is the modification which specifies the total amount of damage the effect can prevent, damage type(s) (if any), the shielded object(s) and/or source(s) of the damage event, and additional modifications to the event (if any).
6.4.10a If a prevention effect is applied to a damage event, for every 1 damage of the given type that would be dealt to the shielded object from the damage source, the 1 damage is prevented and the remaining prevention amount of the effect is reduced by 1. If the prevention amount has been reduced to 0, any remaining damage is dealt as normal.
6.4.10b If the prevention amount is not explicitly specified, the prevention amount is defined as the amount of damage in the damage event.
Example: Feign Death has the text "The next time you would be dealt damage this turn, prevent it," which does not explicitly specify the prevention amount. If the damage event that Feign Death will apply to is 3 damage, then the prevention amount of this effect is considered to be 3.
6.4.10c If the prevention damage type is not specified, the prevention applies to any and all damage types. If the prevention damage type is specified, the prevention only applies to that type of damage.
6.4.10d If the source of the damage event is not specified, the prevention applies to all damage that applies to the specified shielded object(s).
6.4.10e If the shielded object is not specified, the prevent applies to all damage dealt by the specified source(s) of the damage event.
6.4.10f If there are two or more types of damage in the event that the prevention can apply to, and/or two or more shielded objects the damage event will deal damage to, the controller of the prevention effect declares each point of damage the effect will prevent.
6.4.10g If an effect decreases the amount a prevention effect would prevent, the total prevention is determined, the prevention effect's prevention amount is reduced, and then the prevention effect is applied to the event with the decrease.
Example: Vambrace of Determination has the text "The next prevention effect that prevents {p} damage this turn, prevents 1 less of that damage." If Feign Death's effect would be applied to an event of 3{p} damage, first the total prevention is established as 3, then it is reduced by Vambrace of Determination's effect, preventing only 2 damage.
Example: Vambrace of Determination has the text "The next prevention effect that prevents {p} damage this turn, prevents 1 less of that damage." If Bone Head Barrier's effect has a prevention amount of 3 and would be applied to an event of 3{p} damage, first the total prevention is established as 3, the Bone Head Barrier's prevention amount is subtracted, then the total prevention is reduced by Vambrace of Determination's effect. Bone Head Barrier can't prevent any more damage as its prevention amount is 0, but it only prevents 2 damage.
6.4.10h If an effect states that a prevention effect cannot prevent the damage of an event, the prevention effect still applies to the event but its prevention amount is not reduced. Any additional modifications to the event by the prevention effect still occur.
Example: Enchanting Melody has the text "If you would be dealt damage, destroy this to prevent 4 of that damage." which is a fixed-prevention effect with an additional modification that destroys the source. If a damage event occurs that cannot be prevented, Enchanting Melody's prevention effect applies once to the event but does not reduce the damage dealt and Enchanting Melody is still destroyed.
Example: Steadfast has the text "Prevent the next 6 damage that would be dealt to your hero this turn by a source of your choice," which is a shielding-prevention effect. If a damage event occurs that cannot be prevented, Steadfast's prevention effect applies once to the event but does not reduce the damage dealt and does not have its prevention amount reduced. As such will still be able to prevent a total of 6 damage from the source after the event.
6.4.10i A fixed-prevention effect is a prevention effect that acts as a one-off effect. It prevents a specific amount of damage from an event that activates it. Fixed-prevention effects are typically written in the format "[CONDITION], prevent [PREVENTION]." After a fixed-prevention effect prevents damage, any remaining prevention amount is not used to prevent a subsequent damage event.
Example: Dissipation Shield has the text "Instant -- Destroy this: The next time you would be dealt damage this turn, prevent X of that damage, where X is the number of steam counters on Dissipation Shield," which is a fixed-prevention effect that modifies to the next event that would deal damage to your hero this turn but does modify any additional damage events that turn.
6.4.10j A shielding-prevention effect is a prevention effect that acts as a shield. It prevents a specific amount of damage from any number of events that activate it. Shielding-prevention effects are typically written in the format "[CONDITION?] prevent the next [PREVENTION]." After a shielding-prevention effect prevents damage, any remaining prevention amount is used to prevent a future damage event. If the prevention amount of a shielding-prevention effect is reduced to zero, the effect ceases to exist.
Example: Bone Head Barrier has the text "Roll a 6 sided die. Prevent the next X damage that would be dealt to you this turn, where X is the number rolled," which is a shielding-prevention effect that applies to every event that would deal damage to a player's hero this turn until X damage has been prevented in total.
6.4.11 An outcome-replacement effect is a replacement effect that replaces the outcome of an event with another event. A outcome-replacement effect is typically written in the format "(If / The next) [CONDITION], instead [MODIFICATION]," where CONDITION specifies the condition for the replacement effect to be active, and MODIFICATION describes the modifications to the effect before it occurs.
Example: Victor has the text "The first time each turn you would fail to win a clash, instead you may destroy a Gold you control. If you do, put 1 of the revealed cards on the bottom of its owner's deck, then clash again." This is an outcome-replacement effect where the condition is failing to win a clash and the modification is choosing to destroy a gold, modifying the top of a deck, and clashing again.
6.5 Replacement Effect Interactions
6.5.1 If there are two or more replacement effects that could replace an event with a modified event, then effects are applied based on an order determined by the turn-player and then an order determined by each controlling player.
6.5.2 Select Player: First, the turn-player selects a player. When a type of replacement effect is applied, each player in clockwise order applies their active replacement effects of that type one-by-one until they do not control any more active replacement effects of that type; starting with the selected player and ending when there are no more active replacement effects of that type to apply.
6.5.2a The turn-player does not determine the order of effects they do not control, only the first player to apply replacement effects.
6.5.2b The selected player is determined once per event and does not change.
6.5.3 Self-replacement and Identity-replacement: Second, each player applies any self- or identity- replacement effects they control.
6.5.4 Standard-replacement: Third, each player applies any active standard-replacement effects they control.
6.5.5 Prevention: Fourth, each player applies any active prevention effects they control.
6.5.6 Event: Fifth, the event occurs.
6.5.7 Outcome-replacement: Sixth, each player applies any active outcome-replacement effects they control.
6.5.8 Event: Seventh, and finally, the event is complete.
6.6 Triggered Effects
6.6.1 A triggered effect is an effect that can be triggered to put a triggered-layer on the stack. Triggered effects are typically written in the format "[LIMIT?] (When / Whenever / At / The [ORDINAL] time / The next time) [EVENT and/or STATE] [ABILITIES]." Triggered effects never use the term "instead".[6.4]
Note: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "If  [EVENT and/or STATE] [ABILITIES]" and "[LIMIT?] effect - (When / Whenever) [EVENT and/or STATE] [ABILITIES]."
6.6.1a The LIMIT (if any) specifies the trigger limit, which is the maximum number of times the effect can be triggered. If there is no limit, the effect can be triggered any number of times.
6.6.1b The ORDINAL (if any) is one or more ordinal numbers that specify which event(s) within the given duration will match the trigger condition.
6.6.1c The EVENT and/or STATE specifies the event- and/or state-trigger condition that triggers the effect and creates a triggered-layer. If the triggered condition describes an event (or an event and state), the effect is an event-based triggered effect; if the trigger condition describes a game state, the effect is a state-based triggered effect. The trigger condition is not inclusive of the conditions of any effects the triggered-layer would generate.[1.8.4]
6.6.1d The ABILITIES specifies the resolution abilities of the triggered-layer created by the effect. When the triggered-layer resolves, the resolution abilities of the layer generate effects.
6.6.2 An inline-triggered effect is a discrete triggered effect that can only trigger when it is generated. Inline-triggered effects are typically written in the format "When [CONDITION] [EFFECT]."
6.6.2a An inline-triggered effect does not trigger retroactively if the condition is met after the effect is generated.
6.6.3 A delayed-triggered effect is a layer-continuous triggered effect. Delayed triggered effects typically contain, but do not start with the phrase "(when / whenever / at / the [ORDINAL] time / the next time)," or they start with the phrase "The next time."
Example: Lead the Charge (blue) has the text "The next time you play an action card with cost 2 or greater this turn, gain 1 action point," which is a delayed-triggered effect that triggers and creates a triggered-layer when the player plays a card with that cost. When the triggered-layer resolves the player gains 1 action point.
6.6.3a A delayed triggered effect always specifies its duration, unless it is conditional on a change in phase (end of turn) or step (combat chain closes), in which case the effect lasts until it is triggered.
6.6.4 A static-triggered effect is a static-continuous triggered effect. Static triggered effects typically start with the phrase "[LIMIT?] (When / Whenever)" or  "At / The [ORDINAL] time)."
Note: Cards printed before 2022 have also used the format "[LIMIT] Effect -- [EFFECT]," where LIMIT (if any) specifies the maximum number of times the triggered effect can be triggered, and EFFECT specifies the triggered effect of the ability.
Example: Rhinar has the text "Whenever you discard a card with 6 or more {p} during your action phase, intimidate," which is a static-triggered effect that triggers and creates a triggered-layer when you discard a card with 6 or more {p}, and when that triggered-layer resolves, the intimidate effect is generated.
6.6.5 If a game event or game state meets a triggered effect's trigger condition, the effect is considered triggered. When an effect is triggered, it creates a triggered-layer.
6.6.5a A triggered effect must exist before an event or change in state occurs that satisfies its trigger condition, for it to be triggered. If a triggered effect is generated after an event or change in state occurs that satisfies its trigger condition, it does not retroactively trigger. The exception is inline-triggered effects, which triggers as it is generated if its trigger condition is met.
6.6.5b An event-based triggered effect only triggers if an event that meets the triggered condition occurs. If the event is modified before it occurs and no longer meets the triggered condition, the effect does not trigger.[6.4] If the trigger condition also includes a state-trigger condition, that condition must also be met by the game state at the time the event occurs for the effect to trigger.
6.6.5c A state-based triggered effect triggers if the game state did not initially meet the trigger condition, then changes and meets the trigger condition. If a state-based triggered effect is generated while the game state meets the trigger condition, the effect will trigger.
Example: Hyper Driver has the text "This enters the arena with a steam counter. When it has none, destroy it." the latter of which is a state-based triggered effect. If a Hyper Driver enters the arena with no steam counters, the triggered effect is generated, the state-based condition is met, and the effect is triggered, destroying the Hyper Driver on resolution.
6.6.5d If the trigger condition is proceeded by an ordinal as part of the condition, the effect will only trigger on the specified ordinal time(s) the condition is met, relative to the specified duration. If the effect becomes functional after the specified ordinal time(s) the condition would be met, the effect will not trigger for the rest of the specified duration.
Example: If a card has the text "The first time you boost each turn, gain an action point," and it is put into the arena as a permanent after you've boosted that turn, it will not trigger the next time you boost that turn because the ordinal time "first" is relative to the turn and has already happened.
6.6.5e If the triggered effect is triggered, but it would exceed the maximum number of times specified by the trigger limit (if any), the triggered-layer is not created and will not be added to the stack.
6.6.5f If the triggered effect is triggered, but there is an effect that prevents it from triggering, the triggered-layer is not created and will not be added to the stack. However, the triggering still counts towards the limit of the effect (if any).
Example: Katsu has the text "The first time an attack action card you control hits each turn, …" and Tripwire Trap has the text "Hit effects don't trigger this chain link …."  If the Tripwire Trap continuous effect is active and the player that controls Katsu hits with an attack action card, the Katsu triggered effect will not produce a triggered-layer on the stack because Tripwire Trap continuous effect prevents it. The next time this turn the player that controls Katsu hits with an attack action card, the Katsu triggered effect will not produce a triggered-layer on the stack because the once-per-turn limit has already been reached.
6.6.6 When a triggered-layer is created, it is added to the stack before the next player receives priority as a game state process.[1.10.2]
6.6.6a When a triggered-layer is added to the stack, the player that controls the effect must declare the parameters of all abilities of that layer. If the card has any modal resolution abilities, the player must declare the modes for those abilities.[1.7.5] Then, if any resolution abilities generate effects that require a target, the player must declare all legal targets for those effects .[1.8.5] If no legal targets can be declared, the triggered-layer ceases to exist and is not added to the stack.
Example: Thaw has the text "While Thaw is in your graveyard, at the start of your turn, you may banish it and choose 1: Destroy target Frostbite. Destroy target Ice affliction. Unfreeze target frozen card." To add Thaw's triggered-layer to the stack, the controlling player must first select the mode and choose a legal target for that mode, otherwise the triggered-layer ceases to exist and will not be added to the stack.
6.6.6b If two or more triggered-layers would have been created, the turn-player selects a player, then each player in clockwise order adds all pending triggered-layers they control onto the stack in an order they choose, starting with the selected player.
Example: Celestial Kimono has the text "… when this … is destroyed, gain {r}," and Diadem of Dreamstate has the text "… when this … is destroyed, you may pay {r}. If you do, create a Ponder token." If both cards are destroyed, the controlling player may choose to order their trigger-layers so they gain {r} from Celestial Kimono before paying {r} for Diadem of Dreamstate, even if they are not the turn-player.
7 Combat
7.0 General
7.0.1 Combat is a game state where the combat chain is open and attacks undergo resolution in steps on the stack and combat chain. The resolution of a chain link consists of seven steps in order: Layer, Attack, Defend, Reaction, Damage, and Resolution.
7.0.1a During combat, while the combat chain is open, a player cannot play cards or activate activated abilities with the type action, except for attacks during the Resolution Step of combat.[7.6] An action card/ability can still be played/activated as an instant during any step of combat when a player has priority.
7.0.2 The combat chain is a zone[3.6] that is open during combat and closed otherwise. It comprises chain links when it is open, and is empty when it is closed.
7.0.2a The combat chain starts the game closed. If the combat chain is closed and an attack is added to the stack, the combat chain opens and the Layer Step begins immediately. The combat chain remains open until it is closed again.[7.7.2]
7.0.2b When referring to combat chain as a time, the combat chain starts when it opens and ends when closes. If an effect states "this combat chain" it refers to the current combat chain if it is open - if the combat chain is closed the effect fails to be generated.
7.0.3 A chain link is an element of the combat chain and represents the resolution of an attack. A chain link is neither an object nor a zone. A chain link comprises an active-attack, an attack-source (if any), and any number of defending cards.
7.0.3a A chain link is created when an attack is added to the combat chain as a chain link.[7.2.3] The attack becomes the active-attack of chain link N+1, where N is the number of existing chain links on the combat chain.
7.0.3b The active chain link is the most recent chain link of the combat chain to be resolved. When a chain link is created during the Attack Step it remains the active chain link until it resolves[7.6.2] or the combat chain closes.
7.0.3c When referring to a chain link as a collection, the properties, control, and ownership of a chain link are considered to be the same as the active-attack of that chain link. If the active-attack of a chain link ceases to exist, last known information about the active-attack is used to determine the properties, control, and ownership.[1.2.3]
Example: Double Strike has the text "When this chain link resolves, banish this." Even if the Double Strike ceases to exist, the chain link remains, and is considered a Ninja chain link controlled by the attacking hero.
7.0.3d When referring to a chain link as a time, a chain link starts when it becomes the active chain link and ends when it is no longer the active chain link or the combat chain closes. If an effect states "this chain link" it refers to the active chain link - if there is no active chain link (during the Layer or Resolution Step, or when the combat chain is closed) the effect fails to be generated.
7.0.3e If there is an active chain link, any layer that is played/activated/triggered is considered to be played/activated/triggered on the active chain link for rules and effects.[7.0.3b]
7.0.3f To put a card on a chain link, that card moves to the combat chain and is associated with that chain link until it leaves the combat chain. Cards on a chain link are considered to be on the combat chain and in the arena.
7.0.4 An active-attack, is an attack that has been put onto the combat chain as a chain link[1.4][7.0.3a].
7.0.4a If a card is put onto a chain link as an attacking card, the existing active-attack (if any) is cleared, and the new card becomes the active-attack for that chain link. It is considered a new attack, but the attack target(s) remain the same.
Example: Uzuri has the text "… put target attacking card with stealth from the active chain link on the bottom of its owner's deck, then put the banished card onto the active chain link as the attacking card." The card with stealth is essentially replaced by the banished card as the attack on the chain link. The banished card is considered a new attack for rules and effects, except that the target of the attack stays the same.
7.0.5 A defending card is a card that is designated as defending on a chain link for an attack-target by a rule or effect.[7.3.2][7.4.2d][8.5.32]
7.0.5a To be added as a defending card, the card is put on the respective chain link. The card is considered to be defending until it leaves the combat chain. Then the "defend" event occurs and effects that trigger from defending are triggered. The controller of the card at the time it defends is considered to have defended with that card.
Example: Surging Militia has the text "This gets +1{p} for each non-equipment card defending it." and Inertia Trap has the text "When this defends an attack with {p} greater than its base, …" When Inertia Trap becomes a defending card against Surging Militia, the Surging Militia will gain +1{p} before the defend event occurs, and thus Inertia Trap will trigger.
7.0.5b If an effect would add a card on a chain link as a defending card, but the card is already defending on that chain link or the card cannot become a defending card due to another effect, the effect fails, no defend event occurs, and the card does not move zones.
Example: Amulet of Havencall has the text "Defense Reaction -- Destroy this: Search your deck for a Rally the Rearguard, add it to this chain link as a defending card, then shuffle." If Rally the Rearguard cannot be added as a defending card, it remains in the deck and the deck is shuffled.
Example: Quickdodge Flexors has the text "Defense Reaction -- {r}: Add this to the active chain link as a defending card. It has 2 base {d} this chain link." If Quickdodge Flexors is already defending card on the active chain link, then its ability is activated, it will remain a defending card on that chain link, no defend event will occur, but its base {d} will still be set to 2.
7.0.5c A defending card is considered to be defending against the active-attack on the chain link. If the active-attack ceases to exist, last known information about the active-attack is used to determine the properties, control, and ownership of the attack.[1.2.3]
7.0.5d A card can only defend on one chain link for one attack-target at a time. If there are multiple attack-targets and an effect adds a defending card to a chain link but does not specify which attack-target it defends for, the controller of the effect determines which attack-target it will defend for.
7.0.5e If exactly one card is put onto a chain link as a defending card it is considered to defend alone. If two or more cards are put onto a chain link as defending cards in the same event, they are considered to defend together.
Example: If a player declares two cards during the defend step of combat, those cards are considered to defend together. Then, if the player plays and resolves a defense reaction, that card is considered to defend alone because it is just one card being added as a defending card - despite there already being defending cards on the chain link.
7.1 Layer Step
7.1.1 The Layer Step is a game state where an attack is unresolved on the stack.
7.1.2 First, the turn-player gains priority.
7.1.3 Second and finally, when the top layer of the stack is the attack and all players pass in succession, the Layer Step ends and the Attack Step begins.
7.2 Attack Step
7.2.1 The Attack Step is a game state where an attack resolves and becomes attacking before any defending cards are declared.
7.2.2 First, at least one of the attack's attack-targets[1.4.5] must still be a legal target. Otherwise, the Attack Step ends and the Close Step begins.[7.7]
7.2.2a Only one target needs to be legal at this point of combat. If all attack-targets cease to be legal after this point, combat will continue.
7.2.3 Second, each of the resolution abilities of the attack generates its effects in the order specified (except go again), and then the attack moves onto the combat chain as a chain link.[7.0.3] Attacking objects on a chain link remain attacking until they leave the combat chain.
Note: Attacks with resolution abilities that generate discrete effects printed before 2021 have received an errata that corrects them to be triggered effects that trigger when the attack becomes attacking.
7.2.3a If the attack is an attack-card, it moves onto the combat chain as a chain link. The attack-card is the active-attack and becomes attacking.
Example: Head Jab is an attack action card. After the Head Jab resolves, it moves as an attack-card onto the combat chain as a chain link, and it is considered the active-attack.
7.2.3b If the attack is an attack-proxy, the attack and its attack-source move onto the combat chain as the chain link. The attack-proxy is the active-attack and the attack-source becomes attacking. If the attack-source was on a previous chain link, the attack-proxy on that chain link ceases to exist.[1.4.3c]
Example: Bone Basher is a one-handed weapon with an attack activated ability. After an attack-proxy of Bone Basher resolves, the attack-proxy and Bone Basher move onto the combat chain as a chain link, and the attack-proxy is considered the active-attack.
7.2.3c If the attack is an attack-layer, the card specified by the attack-layer's effect moves onto the combat chain as a chain link. This card is the active-attack and becomes attacking. All of the parameters and applied effects of the attack-layer transfer to the active-attack, and then the attack-layer ceases to exist.
Example: Emperor, Dracai of Aesir has the text "Search your deck for Command and Conquer, attack with it, then shuffle." After the ability resolves and Command and Conquer is found in the deck, the Command and Conquer moves to the combat chain as a chain link, and it is considered the active-attack.
7.2.3d If the active-attack does not exist, or cannot move to the combat chain as a chain link, the Attack Step ends and the Close Step begins.[7.7]
Example: Emperor, Dracai of Aesir has the text "Search your deck for Command and Conquer, attack with it, then shuffle," where the active-attack is specified as the Command and Conquer. If the search fails to produce a Command and Conquer, the active-attack of the attack does not exist, so the combat chain closes.
7.2.4 Third, the "attack" event occurs and effects that trigger from attacking are triggered.
Example: The attack is Dread Triptych. The abilities "When this attacks, if you've played a non-attack action card this turn, create a Runechant token." and "When this attacks, if you've dealt arcane damage this turn, create a Runechant token." trigger and are added as separate triggered-layers on the stack.
7.2.4a The controller of the active-attack and their hero become the "attacking hero" until the active chain link resolves or the combat chain closes. If an effect of a source on the chain link refers to the attacking hero, it refers to that hero until the combat chain closes.
7.2.4b The controller of the attack-target and their hero become the "defending hero" until the active chain link resolves or the combat chain closes. If an effect of a source on the chain link refers to the defending hero, it refers to that hero until the combat chain closes.
Example: Exude Confidence has the text "If this isn't defended by a card with greater or equal {p}, the defending hero can't play or activate instants and defense reactions," which is an effect that refers to the defending hero of the chain link where Exude Confidence the active-attack. If the next attack has a different attack-target, Exude Confidence's effect will still refer to that hero.
7.2.5 Fourth, the turn-player gains priority.
7.2.6 Fifth and finally, when the stack is empty and all players pass in succession, the Attack Step ends and the Defend Step begins.
7.3 Defend Step
7.3.1 The Defend Step is a game state where defending cards may be declared by a hero being attacked.
7.3.2 First, defending cards are declared for the attack-target(s). Cards declared this way become defending cards for the attack-target(s) on the active chain link.[7.0.5] Declaring a card this way is not considered playing that card - it does not incur the cost of playing that card, it does not add it as a layer on the stack, and it does not resolve any resolution abilities on that card.
7.3.2a If the attack-target is a hero, their controller may declare any number of non-defense-reaction cards from their hand and/or public equipment permanents they control. Otherwise, a player may only declare cards for an attack-target if a rule or effect specifies it.
7.3.2b A card cannot be declared if (A) it does not have the defense property (0 is a value), (B) it is already a defending card on a chain link, or (C) it would make the current set of declared cards illegal to become defending.
Example: If an attack has overpower (can't be defended by more than one action card) and is already defended by an action card, an action card cannot be declared because it cannot become a defending card.
7.3.2c If a player declares two or more defending cards for an attack-target, they decide the order those cards are declared and become defending.
Example: Flic Flak has the text "If the next card you defend with this turn is a card with combo, it gains +2{d}." If a player declares two or more cards, they choose the order they become defending, and thus which of those cards Flic Flak's ability will apply to.
7.3.2d All declared cards for an attack-target are put onto the active chain link as a single multi-event as defending cards for that attack-target. The order in which the declared cards become defending within the multi-event is determined by the order in which were declared.[1.9.2]
Example: Bastion of Unity has the text "Unity - When this defends together with a card from hand, this gets +1{d} until end of turn." If one player declares Bastion of Unity and another player declares a card from hand, Bastion of Unity's effect will trigger because both cards defend together as part of the same multi-event.
7.3.2e If two or more players may declare defending cards for an attack-target, they do so in clockwise order starting with the player that controls the attack-target.[1.1.6]
Example: If a player's hero is attacked, that player declares any defending cards first, then in clockwise order, players may declare additional defending cards, such as cards with Protect.
7.3.2f If there are two or more attack-targets, defending cards are declared for each attack-target in clockwise order of their controller, starting from attacking hero.[1.1.6] Then, if two or more attack-targets are controlled by the same player, defending cards are declared for each attack-target in an order determined by that controlling player. Cards only defend the attack-target they are declared for. All declared cards for each attack target are put onto the active chain link in separate events as defending cards.
Example: Apocalypse Automaton has the text "This attacks up to X target opposing heroes, …." If two players' heroes are attacked by an Apocalypse Automaton, the defending cards for each hero are declared in clockwise order from the controller of the attack. The first hero's player declares defending cards, then any player may declare additional defending cards (such as cards with Protect), and finally, those declared cards become defending cards for that hero. This process then repeats for the second hero.
7.3.3 Second, the turn-player gains priority.
7.3.4 Third and finally, when the stack is empty and all players pass in succession, the Defend Step ends and the Reaction Step begins.
7.4 Reaction Step
7.4.1 The Reaction Step is a game state where players may use reactions related to combat.
7.4.2 First, the turn-player gains priority.
7.4.2a The player that controls the attack may play/activate attack reaction[8.1.2] cards/abilities when they have priority during the Reaction Step.
7.4.2b A player that controls a hero as an attack-target (if any) may play/activate defense reaction[8.1.3] cards/abilities when they have priority during the Reaction Step.
7.4.2c A defense reaction card cannot be played if a rule or effect would prevent the player from defending with that card.
Example: If an attack has dominate (can't be defended by more than 1 card from hand) and is already defended by a card from hand, defense reaction cards cannot be played from hand because dominate prevents it from becoming a defending card.
7.4.2d When a defense reaction card resolves it becomes a defending card on the active chain link for its controller's hero.[7.0.5] A defense reaction card fails to resolve if it cannot become a defending card.[5.3.2b]
Example: If an attack has dominate (can't be defended by more than 1 card from hand) and there are two defense reactions on the stack, the first one will resolve and become a defending card, but the second one will fail to resolve because dominate prevents it from becoming a defending card.
7.4.3 Second and finally, when the stack is empty and all players pass in succession, the Reaction Step ends and the Damage Step begins.
7.5 Damage Step
7.5.1 The Damage Step is a game state where the physical damage of the active chain link is calculated and applied.
7.5.2 First, damage is calculated for the attack-target(s). If the power of the attack is greater than the sum total defense value of the defending cards for the attack-target, the attack hits the attack-target for {p} damage equal to the difference.
Example: If the power of the attack is 6, and there are two defending cards with a defense 3 and 2 respectively then the sum total defense value of the defending cards is 5. The power of the attack is greater than the sum total defense, so the attack-target is dealt 6-5=1 {p} damage.
7.5.2a Dealing {p} damage to the attack-target this way, is a hit-event generated by the game.[7.5.5] The source of the damage is the attack.
7.5.2b If the attack-target has ceased to exist or is illegal when the damage is calculated, no damage is dealt, and the event is not generated.
7.5.2c If there are two or more attack-targets, damage is calculated and dealt separately for each attack-target controlled by players in clockwise-order. If there are two or more attack-targets controlled by the same player, the order for those attack-targets is determined by the controller of the attack.
7.5.3 Second, the turn-player gains priority.
7.5.4 Third and finally, when the stack is empty and all players pass in succession, the Damage Step ends and the Resolution Step begins.
7.5.5 The hit-event is a named-event[1.9.3] that is otherwise identical to a deal {p} damage event[8.5.3]. An attack is considered to have hit if it deals damage to an attack-target with a hit-event.
7.5.5a If the attack-target loses life as a result of anything except damage dealt by the hit-event, then the attack is not considered to have hit.
7.5.5b If the hit-event is modified by replacement effects such that no damage is dealt by the active-attack to the attack-target, it is no longer a hit-event - the attack is not considered to have hit when the event occurs. Damage may still be dealt if the hit-event is modified, but it is not considered a hit-event if the active-attack is not the source of the damage that would be dealt to the attack-target.
Example: Feign Death has the text "The next time you would be dealt damage this turn, prevent it." If the effect from Feign Death prevents all damage dealt by the active-attack, no damage is dealt, the hit-event does not occur, and the attack is not considered to have hit.
7.5.5c If a rule or effect prevents a triggered effect from triggering when the active-attack hits and/or when it deals damage, then the triggered effect does not trigger on the hit-event.
Example: Stamp Authority has the text "Attack action card effects do not trigger when they hit," which prevents triggered effects from attack action card triggering on a hit-event. If a triggered effect from an attack action card would trigger on damage being dealt (e.g. Blizzard Bolt), and the attack action card hits, the effect will not trigger on the hit-event.
7.5.5d A chain link is considered to have hit if any hit-event occurs while it is the active chain link.
7.6 Resolution Step
7.6.1 The Resolution Step is a game state where the active chain link resolves and the attacker may gain an action point from go again and continue the combat chain by attacking.
7.6.2 First, the active chain link becomes a resolved chain link and effects that trigger when the chain link resolves are triggered. If the attack has go again, its controller gains 1 action point.
7.6.2a If the attack is no longer on the combat chain, the last known information of the attack is used to determine whether the attack has go again.
7.6.3 Second, the turn-player gains priority. If an attack is added to the stack, the Resolution Step ends and the Layer Step begins.
7.6.3a The turn-player may play or activate another attack during the Resolution Step, including attack action cards or abilities with attack.
7.6.4 Third and finally, when the stack is empty and all players pass in succession, the Resolution Step ends and the Close Step begins.
7.7 Close Step
7.7.1 The Close Step is a game state where the combat chain closes and combat ends. Players do not get priority during the Close Step.
7.7.2 If a rule or effect causes the combat chain to close, the current step (if any) ends and the Close Step begins. The combat chain closes in the following situations:
7.7.2a If all players pass in succession when the stack is empty during the Resolution Step, the Close Step begins.[7.6.4]
7.7.2b If there are no valid attack-targets at the beginning of the Attack Step, the Close Step begins.[7.2.2]
7.7.2c If the active-attack of the active chain link does not exist or cannot move to the combat chain as a chain link,[7.2.3d] or the active-attack ceases to exist before damage is calculated,[7.5.2] the Close Step begins as a game state action.[1.10.2]
Example: Luminaris has the text "… Illusionist auras you control are weapons with 1{p} and "Once per Turn Action -- 0: Attack"." If a Spectral Shield token is activated to attack the opponent, and the token is destroyed before the Damage Step, the activated attack will also cease to exist, and the Close Step will begin.
7.7.2d If an effect closes the combat chain, the Close Step begins as a game state action.[1.10.2]
7.7.3 First, the "combat chain closes" event occurs and effects that trigger from the combat chain closing are triggered. All attacks and reactions on the stack, are put into their owner's graveyard.
7.7.4 Second, layers on the stack resolve and game state actions are performed as if all players are passing priority in succession.[1.10.2]
7.7.5 Third, when the stack is empty, all permanents remaining on the combat chain return to their respective zones - equipment and weapons return to their respective equipped zones. Any other permanent returns to the permanent zone.
7.7.6 Fourth, all remaining objects on the combat chain are cleared.[3.0.12]
7.7.7 Fifth and finally, the combat chain closes. Effects that last for "the/this combat chain" end. The Close Step ends and the Action Phase continues.
8 Keywords
8.0 General
8.0.1 A keyword is a reserved term or phrase that serves as a descriptive element for rules and/or effects to reference or has some rules meaning.
8.0.2 A type keyword is a keyword used by a card's text box to describe the type of an object.
8.0.3 A subtype keyword is a keyword used by a card's text box to describe the subtype of an object.
8.0.4 An ability keyword is a keyword that substitutes for the rules text of an ability.
8.0.5 A label keyword is a keyword that groups abilities with common effects. A label keyword and its ability are typically written in the format "[KEYWORD] - [ABILITY]."
8.0.6 An effect keyword is a keyword that substitutes for the rules text of an effect.
8.0.6a When a discrete keyword effect is generated, or when a continuous effect is applied, it produces a corresponding event of that keyword.
8.0.7 A token keyword is a keyword that refers to a specific token. A token keyword is typically written in the format "[KEYWORD] token."
8.1 Type Keywords
8.1.1 Action
An action card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.1a An action card/activated ability can only be played/activated when the stack is empty.
8.1.1b An action card/activated ability cannot be played/activated during combat, except during the Resolution Step of combat.[7.0.1a]
8.1.1c An action card/activated ability has the additional asset-cost of one action point to play/activate.[5.1.6]
8.1.1d If an action card/activated ability is played/activated as though it were an instant, it is still considered an action, but it can be played/activated any time the player has priority and does not cost an action point.
8.1.2 Attack Reaction
An attack reaction card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.2a An attack reaction card/activated ability can only be played/activated by a player who controls the attack during the Reaction Step of combat.[7.4]
8.1.2b When an attack reaction card resolves as a layer on the stack, it is cleared.[3.0.12]
8.1.2c An attack reaction card/activated ability is considered to be a reaction card/ability.
8.1.3 Defense Reaction
A defense reaction card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.3a A defense reaction card/activated ability can only be played/activated by a player who controls a hero as an attack-target during the Reaction Step of combat.[7.4]
8.1.3b When a defense reaction card resolves as a layer on the stack, it becomes a defending card on the active chain link.[7.0.5]
8.1.3c A defense reaction card/activated ability is considered to be a reaction card/ability.
8.1.4 Equipment
An equipment card (without any other types) is an arena-card.[1.3.2d]
8.1.4a As an arena-card, a player may equip an equipment card from their card-pool during the start-of-game procedure to its respective zone.[4.1]
8.1.4b An equipment permanent may be declared as a defending card during the Defend Step of combat.[7.3.2]
8.1.5 Hero
A hero card is a hero-card.[1.3.2a]
8.1.5a A player starts the game with their hero card as a permanent in their hero zone.[4.1]
8.1.5b A hero card is separate from, and cannot be included in a player's, card-pool.[1.1.3]
8.1.6 Instant
An instant card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.6a A card/activated ability with the type instant can be played/activated any time the player has priority.
8.1.7 Resource
A resource card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.7a A resource card cannot be played.
8.1.8 Token
A token card is a token-card.[1.3.2b]
8.1.8a Tokens only exist in the arena or as sub-cards.[3.0.14] If a token leaves the arena and it is not a sub-card, it ceases to exist.
8.1.9 Weapon
A weapon card is an arena-card.[1.3.2d]
8.1.9a As an arena-card, a player may equip a weapon card from their card-pool during the start-of-game procedure to its respective zone.[4.1]
8.1.10 Mentor
A mentor card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.10a A mentor card can only be included in a player's card-pool if they have a young (subtype) hero.
8.1.11 Demi-Hero
A demi-hero card is an arena-card.[1.3.2d]
8.1.11a A demi-hero card is distinct from a hero-card. It is included as part of a player's card-pool and it cannot be used in place of a player's hero at the start of the game.
8.1.11b If a demi-hero becomes a permanent in the arena and the controlling player does not control a hero, the demi-hero is considered to be that player's hero and has the hero type for the purposes of rules and effects for the rest of the game. Otherwise, if the player already controls a hero, the demi-hero is cleared from the arena.[3.0.12]
8.1.12 Block
A block card is a deck-card.[1.3.2c]
8.1.12a A block card cannot be played.
8.1.13 Macro
A macro is not a card.
8.1.13a Only macro objects have the macro type.[1.5]
8.1.14 Companion
A companion card is an arena-card.[1.3.2d]
8.2 Subtype Keywords
8.2.1 (1H)
8.2.1a A (1H) object considered to be a one-hander.
8.2.1b A one-hander permanent must be equipped to a player's weapon zone. A one-hander cannot be equipped if the player does not have an empty weapon zone.
8.2.2 (2H)
8.2.2a A (2H) object considered to be a two-hander.
8.2.2b A two-hander permanent must be equipped to two of a player's weapon zones. A two-hander cannot be equipped if the player does not have two empty weapon zones.
8.2.2c A two-hander occupies either of the two weapon zones it is equipped to, but not both.
8.2.3 Attack
8.2.3a An attack card is considered an attack when on the stack or when it is on the combat chain as an attacking card.[1.4.2]
8.2.3b When an attack card is played, the combat chain opens (if it is closed) and the layer step of combat begins.[7.1]
8.2.4 Aura
8.2.4a When an aura resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena.
8.2.4b When an aura enters the arena, it becomes a permanent, except when it is added as a defending card to a chain link.
8.2.5 Item
8.2.5a When an item resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena.
8.2.5b When an item enters the arena, it becomes a permanent, except when it is added as a defending card to a chain link.
8.2.6 Arrow
8.2.6a An arrow can only be played from the player's arsenal and only if they control a bow.
8.2.7 Trap
Note: As of 2023, trap is no longer a functional subtype keyword.
8.2.8 Ally
8.2.8a If an ally permanent ceases to exist, it is considered to have died.[2.5.3g]
8.2.8b During the End Phase, an ally's life total is reset to its base life.[4.4]
8.2.8c If an ally is attacking, the controlling player and their hero are not considered an attacking hero for that chain link.[7.2.4a]
8.2.8d If an ally is the target of an attack, the controlling player and their hero are considered a defending hero for that chain link, but the player cannot declare defending cards or play or activate defense reaction cards or abilities during the reaction step of combat.[7.2.4b]
8.2.8e If an ally deals damage, the controlling player and their hero are not considered to have dealt damage.
8.2.8f If an ally is dealt damage, the controlling player and their hero are not considered to have been dealt damage.
8.2.9 Landmark
8.2.9a When a landmark resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena.
8.2.9b When a landmark enters the arena, it becomes a permanent and all other landmark permanents are cleared, except when the landmark is added as a defending card to a chain link.[3.0.12]
8.2.10 Off-Hand
8.2.10a An off-hand permanent must be equipped to a player's weapon zone. An off-hand cannot be equipped if the player does not have an empty weapon zone.
8.2.10b A player cannot equip more than one off-hand.
8.2.11 Affliction
8.2.11a When an affliction resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena.
8.2.11b When an affliction enters the arena, it becomes a permanent, except when it is added as a defending card to a chain link.
8.2.11c As an object with the subtype affliction enters the arena as a permanent, its controller declares an opponent and the object enters the arena under that player's control. If the affliction has no controller before it enters the arena, its owner declares the opponent. If the object cannot enter the arena under that player's control, it is cleared and is not considered to have entered the arena.
8.2.12 Ash
8.2.12a When an ash resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena.
8.2.12b When an ash enters the arena, it becomes a permanent, except when it is added as a defending card to a chain link.
8.2.13 Invocation
8.2.13a When an invocation resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena with its back-face active and becomes a permanent.[9.1]
8.2.14 Construct
8.2.14a When a construct resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena with its back-face active and becomes a permanent.[9.1]
8.2.15 Quiver
8.2.15a A quiver permanent must be equipped to a player's weapon zone. A quiver may be equipped to, and occupy, a weapon zone that a two-hander bow is already equipped to but does not occupy; otherwise, a quiver cannot be equipped if the player does not have an empty weapon zone.
8.2.15b A player cannot equip more than one quiver.
8.2.16 Figment
8.2.16a When a figment resolves as a layer on the stack, it enters the arena.
8.2.16b When a figment enters the arena, it becomes a permanent, except when it is added as a defending card to a chain link.
8.3 Ability Keywords
8.3.1 Attack
Attack is a static ability. A layer with the attack ability is an attack-proxy.
8.3.1a When an attack-proxy resolves on the stack, it and its source move onto the combat chain as a chain link.[7.2.3b]
8.3.1b If attack-proxy is added to the stack, the combat chain opens (if it is closed) and the Layer Step of combat begins.[7.1]
8.3.1c To add an attack-proxy onto the stack, a legal attackable target must be declared as the target of the attack.[1.4.5a]
8.3.2 Battleworn
Battleworn is triggered-static ability that means "When the combat chain closes, if this defended, put a -1{d} counter on it."
8.3.3 Blade Break
Blade Break is a triggered-static ability that means "When the combat chain closes, if this defended, destroy it."
8.3.4 Dominate
Dominate is a static ability that means "This can't be defended by more than one card from hand."
8.3.4a If an attack with dominate is currently defended by a card from hand, an additional card cannot be added as a defending card to the attack's chain link if the card comes from a player's hand.[5.3.2b][8.5.32]
8.3.4b If an attack with dominate is currently defended by a card from hand on the activate chain link, defense reaction cards cannot be played from hand.[7.4.2c]
8.3.4c If an attack is defended by two or more cards from hand and then the attack gains dominate, no cards are retroactively removed from defending.
8.3.5 Go again
Go again is a special resolution ability that means "Gain 1 action point."
8.3.5a If go again is an ability of a non-attack layer on the stack, the controlling player gains 1 action point after all other resolution abilities have resolved.[5.3.5]
8.3.5b If go again is an ability of an attack on the active chain link, the controlling player gains 1 action point at the beginning of the Resolution Step of combat.[7.6.2]
8.3.5c An object cannot have more than one "go again" ability. If an effect would give the "go again" ability to an object that already has the "go again" ability, then that part of the effect fails.
8.3.6 Legendary
Legendary is a meta-static ability that means "You may only have 1 of this in your constructed deck."
8.3.7 Specialization
Specialization is a meta-static ability. Specialization is written as "[HERO] Specialization" which means "You may only have this in your deck if your hero is [HERO]," where HERO is the moniker of the player's hero card.[2.7.3]
8.3.8 Arcane Barrier
Arcane Barrier is a static ability. Arcane Barrier is written as "Arcane Barrier N" which means "If you would be dealt arcane damage, you may pay N{r} to prevent N of that damage."
8.3.9 Boost
Boost is an optional additional-cost play-static ability that means "As an additional cost to play this, you may banish the top card of your deck. If you do, if it's a Mechanologist card, this gets go again."
8.3.9a If a player pays the additional cost to play a card with boost, the player is considered to have boosted and the played card is considered to have been boosted, even if the banished card is not a Mechanologist card.
8.3.9b A player cannot boost if they cannot pay the additional cost of banishing the top card of their deck.
8.3.10 Temper
Temper is a triggered-static ability that means "When the combat chain closes, if this defended, put a -1{d} counter on it, then destroy it if it has zero {d}."
8.3.11 Blood Debt
Blood Debt is a triggered-static ability. Blood debt means "While this is in your banished zone, at the beginning of your end phase, lose 1{h}."
8.3.11a Blood debt only triggers if its source is public in the banished zone at the beginning of the owner's end phase.
8.3.12 Mentor
Note: As of 2022, the mentor ability has been superseded by the Mentor type[8.1.10]
8.3.13 Phantasm
Phantasm is a triggered-static ability that means "Whenever this is defended by a non-Illusionist attack action card with 6 or more {p}, destroy this."
8.3.13a If an attack with Phantasm is being defended by a non-Illusionist attack action card that has the power property with a value of 6 or more, then the state-condition is met and a triggered-layer is put on the stack. When the triggered-layer resolves, if the trigger's event-condition is still met, the attack is destroyed.
8.3.13b If an attack is destroyed by phantasm before damage for its chain link has been calculated, the combat chain closes.[7.7.2] If an attack is destroyed by phantasm after damage for its chain link has been calculated, the combat chain does not close.
8.3.14 Spectra
Spectra is a static ability and a triggered-static ability that respectively mean "this can be attacked" and  "When this becomes the target of an attack, destroy this."
8.3.14a An object with Spectra can be the target of an attack, even if it is not a living object.[1.4.5a]
8.3.14b When an object with Spectra becomes the target of an attack, a triggered-layer is put on the stack. When the triggered-layer resolves, the object with Spectra is destroyed. If there are not other legal attack-targets, the combat chain closes.[7.7.2]
8.3.15 Spellvoid
Spellvoid is a static ability. Spellvoid is written as "Spellvoid N" which means "If you would be dealt arcane damage, you may destroy this to prevent N of that damage."
8.3.15a If the controlling player cannot destroy the object with Spellvoid, they cannot apply the optional prevention effect.
8.3.16 Essence
Essence is a meta-static ability. Essence is written in the format "Essence of [SUPERTYPES]" which means "You may have [SUPERTYPES] cards in your deck, as though your hero had those supertypes," where SUPERTYPES is a list of one or more supertypes.[2.11]
8.3.17 Fusion
Fusion is an optional additional-cost play-static ability. Fusion is written as "[SUPERTYPES] Fusion" which means "As an additional cost to play this, you may reveal (a/an) [SUPERTYPES] card(s) from your hand," where SUPERTYPES is a list of one or more supertypes.[2.11]
8.3.17a If a player pays the additional cost to play a card with fusion, the player is considered to have fused those supertypes and the played card is considered to have been fused.
8.3.17b A player cannot fuse if they cannot pay the additional cost of revealing the card(s) with the specified supertypes from their hand.
8.3.17c A player may only reveal up to one card for each of the supertypes listed. A single card may be revealed for one or more different supertypes.
8.3.17d If the list specifies "and," the player must reveal cards with all of the supertypes in the list. If the list specifies "and/or," the player must reveal cards with at least one of the supertypes on the list.
8.3.18 Heave
Heave is a hidden triggered ability. Heave is written as "Heave N" which means "While this is in your hand, at the beginning of your end phase, you may pay N{r} and put this face-up into your arsenal. If you do, create N Seismic Surge tokens."
8.3.18a If a player pays the cost to pay the resource point cost and put the card with Heave face-up into their arsenal, the player is considered to have heaved and the card is considered to have been heaved.
8.3.18b A player cannot heave if they cannot pay the resource point cost or put the card with Heave face-up into their arsenal.
8.3.19 Quell
Quell is a static ability. Quell is written as "Quell N" which means "If you would be dealt damage, you may pay N{r} to prevent N of that damage. If you do, destroy this at the beginning of the end phase."
8.3.20 Ward
Ward is a static ability. Ward is written as "Ward N" which means "If you would be dealt damage, destroy this to prevent N of that damage."
8.3.21 Ephemeral
Ephemeral is a meta-static ability and a static ability that respectively mean "You can't start the game with this in your deck." and "If this would be put into a graveyard from anywhere, instead it ceases to exist."
8.3.21a A player cannot include a card with Ephemeral in their card-pool.[1.1.3]
8.3.21b A card that ceases to exist from Ephemeral is removed from the game. A card that is removed from the game has no further interaction with the rules and effects in the game.
8.3.22 Overpower
Overpower is a static ability that means "This can't be defended by more than one action card."
8.3.22a If an attack with overpower is currently defended by an action card, an additional action card cannot be added as a defending card to the attack's chain link..[8.5.32]
8.3.22b If an attack is defended by two or more action cards and then the attack gains overpower, no cards are retroactively removed from defending.
8.3.23 Piercing
Piercing is a static ability. Piercing is written as "Piercing N" which means "If this is defended by an equipment, it gets +N{p}."
8.3.24 Stealth
Stealth is an ability that means nothing.
8.3.25 Mirage
Mirage is a triggered-static ability that means "When this is defending a non-Illusionist attack with 6 or more {p}, destroy this."
8.3.26 Pairs [with OBJECT]
Pairs is a static ability that means "Equip this only with an OBJECT.", where OBJECT is 1 or more object identities.
8.3.26a A card with pairs can only be equipped to a zone owned by a player if the player already has an OBJECT equipped, or if an OBJECT is being equipped as part of the same event.
8.3.27 Rune Gate
Rune Gate is a play-static ability that means "If you control Runechants equal to or greater than this's {r} cost, you may play it from your banished zone without paying its {r} cost."
8.3.27a If a player plays a card from their banished zone using rune gate, they are considered to have rune gated, and the card is considered to be rune gated.
8.3.28 Ambush
Ambush is a while-static ability that means "While this is in your arsenal, you may defend with it."
8.3.29 Crank
Crank is a static ability that means "As this enters the arena, you may remove a steam counter from it. If you do, gain an action point."
8.3.29a If a player removes a steam counter using crank, they are considered to have cranked, and the card is considered to be cranked.
8.3.30 Modular
Modular is a static ability that means "This may be equipped to any of your equipment zones. It has the subtype of the zone it's equipped to."
8.3.30a The equipment zones are Arms, Chest, Head, and Legs.
8.3.30b A card can only be equipped to its owner's equipment zones with Modular.
8.3.30c A card with modular does not have any of the equipment subtypes until it is equipped to a zone.
8.3.31 Protect
Protect is a static ability that means "You may defend any hero attacked by an opponent with this."
8.3.31a If a player defends with a card with protect, they and the card are considered to have protected.
8.3.32 Scrap
Scrap is a play-static ability that means "As an additional cost to play this, you may banish an item or equipment from your graveyard."
8.3.32a If a player pays the additional cost to play a card with scrap, the player is considered to have scrapped, and the banished card is considered to have been scrapped.
8.3.32b A player cannot scrap if they cannot pay the additional cost of banishing an item or equipment from their graveyard.
8.3.33 Beat Chest
Beat Chest is a play-static ability that means "As an additional cost to play this, you may discard a card with 6 or more {p}."
8.3.33a If a player pays the additional cost to play a card with beat chest, the player is considered to have beaten chest.
8.3.33b A player cannot beat chest if they cannot pay the additional cost of discarding a card with 6 or more {p}.
8.3.34 Guardwell
Guardwell is a static ability that means "When the combat chain closes, if this defended, put -1{d} counters on it equal to its {d}."
8.3.35 Universal
Universal is a while-static ability that means "While in any zone, it is the same class as your hero."
8.3.36 Cloaked
Cloaked is a static ability that means "Equip this face-down."
8.3.37 Arcane Shelter
Arcane Shelter is a static ability. Arcane Shelter is written as "Arcane Shelter N" which means "If you would be dealt arcane damage, destroy this to prevent N of that damage."
8.3.38 Meld
Meld is a static ability that means "You may pay twice the base cost of this to play both halves of this."
8.3.38a If a player chooses to pay the alternative cost to play a card with meld, the player is considered to have melded and the card is melded. The card remains melded until it ceases to exist.
8.3.38b Meld sets the asset-cost of a card before increases and decreases are applied. ([5.1.6])
8.3.38c A melded card has the properties of both of its sides on a split-card[9.2]: both names, and the combination of its abilities, supertypes, types, and subtypes. If melded card is not a split-card, it is unaffected by meld.
8.3.39 Perched
Perched is a static ability that means "This can be equipped in addition to a 2H weapon. This can't be attacked while it's equipped."
8.3.39a A card with perched may be equipped to, and occupy, a weapon zone that a two-hander weapon is already equipped to but does not occupy; otherwise, a card with perched cannot be equipped if the player does not have an empty zone to equip to.
8.3.39b A card with perched cannot be equipped unless it has a subtype that allows it to be equipped to a specific zone.
8.3.39c A equipped card with perched cannot be the target of an attack, but it may be the target of other non-attack effects.
8.3.40 Unlimited
Unlimited is a meta-static ability that means "You may have any number of this card in your deck."
8.3.41 Watery Grave
Watery Grave is a triggered-static ability that means "When this is put into your graveyard from the arena, turn it face-down."
8.3.42 Suspense
Suspense is a static ability and two triggered-static abilities that means "This enters the arena with 2 suspense counters," "At the start of your turn, remove a suspense counter from this," and "When this has no suspense counters, destroy it."
8.4 Label Keywords
8.4.1 Combo
Combo is a label for a static ability typically written as "Combo - If [NAMES] was the last attack this combat chain, [EFFECTS]" where NAMES is a list of one or more names.[2.7]
8.4.2 Crush
Crush is a label for a triggered-static ability typically written as "Crush - When this deals 4 or more damage, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.2a The Crush ability is conditional on an event that deals damage, not just a hit-event.[7.5.5]
8.4.3 Reprise
Reprise is a label for a resolution ability typically written as "Reprise - If the defending hero has defended with a card from their hand this chain link, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.3a The condition of a reprise ability effect is checked on resolution - it does not retroactively generate effects if the condition is met after resolution.
8.4.4 Channel
Channel is a label for an ability typically written as "Channel [SUPERTYPE] - At the beginning of your end phase, put a flow counter on this then destroy it unless you put a [SUPERTYPE] card from your pitch zone on the bottom of your deck for each flow counter on it." where SUPERTYPE is a supertype.[2.11]
%
8.4.5 Material
Material is a label for an ability typically written as "Material - While this is under a permanent, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.6 Rupture
Rupture is a label for an ability typically written as "Rupture - If this is played [as / at] chain link 4 or higher, [EFFECTS]."
%
8.4.7 Contract
Contract is a label for a static ability typically written as "Contract - You are contracted to [CONDITION]. Whenever you complete this contract, [EFFECT]" where CONDITION is one or more contract conditions, and EFFECT the reward for completing the contract.[8.5.39]
8.4.8 Surge
Surge is a label for a resolution or static ability typically written as "Surge - If this deals N damage, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.9 Solflare
Solflare is a label for an ability typically written as "Solflare - When this is charged to your hero's soul, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.10 Unity
Unity is a label for an ability typically written as "Unity - When this defends together with a card from hand, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.11 Evo Upgrade
Evo Upgrade is a label for an ability typically written as "Evo Upgrade - [EFFECTS] for each evo you have equipped" or "Evo Upgrade - [EFFECTS] where X is the number of evos you have equipped."
8.4.12 Galvanize
Galvanize is a label for an ability typically written as "Galvanize - When this defends, you may destroy an item you control. If you do, [EFFECTS]"
8.4.13 Tower
Tower is a label for an ability typically written as "Tower - If this has 13 or more {p}, [EFFECTS]"
8.4.14 Decompose
Decompose is a label for an ability typically written as "Decompose - You may banish 2 Earth cards and an action card from your graveyard. If you do, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.15 Earth Bond
Earth Bond is a label for an ability typically written as "Earth Bond - If an earth card was pitched to play this, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.16 Lightning Flow
Lightning Flow is a label for an ability typically written as "Lightning Flow - If you've played a Lightning card this turn, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.17 Heavy
Heavy is a label for an ability typically written as "Heavy - If this is the only card equipped to your weapon zones, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.18 High Tide
High Tide is a label for an ability typically written as "High Tide - If there are 2 or more blue cards in your pitch zone, [EFFECTS]."
8.4.19 Go Fish
Go Fish is a label for an ability typically written as "Go Fish - When this hits a hero, they choose and reveal a card from their hand. If it's [ADJECTIVE] they discard it and you create a Gold token."
8.5 Effect Keywords
8.5.1 Banish
Banish is a discrete effect. To banish an object, the instructed player moves the object to its owner's banished zone.
8.5.1a Putting an object into the banished zone because of a rule or effect other than banish is not considered banishing that object.
8.5.1b If an object would be banished but a replacement effect specifically modifies the destination to a zone other than the banished zone, the card is still considered banished.
8.5.1c If an object is banished until a certain condition is met, the banish event is generated normally and the object is returned to its previous zone immediately after the condition is met as a delayed discrete effect. If the object ceases to exist before being returned, the return fails.
8.5.2 Create (token)
Create is a discrete effect. To create a token, produce the specified token and put it in the arena.
8.5.2a The properties of a created token, specified by the token keyword, are defined in .[8.6]
8.5.2b A token is put into the arena as it is created. Effects that trigger from the token entering the arena trigger as though the token was created first, then entered the arena. If an effect applies to the created token as it is created, it applies to it as it enters the arena.
8.5.2c A token enters the arena under the control of the player instructed to create it. If the token is created in a zone owned by a player, the token enters that zone under the control of that player.
8.5.3 Deal (damage)
Deal is a discrete effect. To deal damage to an object, that object loses {h} equal to the damage dealt. Only living objects may be targeted.
8.5.3a If an object loses life from being dealt damage, the ability that generated the damage effect and the ability's source of the damage are considered to have dealt that damage. If the effect specifies the source of the damage, that source is considered to have dealt that damage instead. If the source is a non-living card, the player that controls the source and the player's hero are also considered to have dealt that damage.
8.5.3b There are 3 types of damage: generic, physical, and arcane. Generic damage is damage without a specified type - it is referred to as "damage." Physical damage is damage dealt by an object using its power value {p} during the damage step of combat - it is referred to as "{p} damage".[7.5] Arcane damage is damage dealt by an effect that specifically deals arcane damage.
8.5.3c If a non-living object would be dealt damage, the effect fails.[2.5.1a]
8.5.3d Losing life because of a rule or effect other than dealing damage is not considered dealing damage. An effect that causes life loss is not considered damage.[8.5.12]
8.5.3e An effect that triggers from a specific type of damage being dealt, other than generic damage, does not trigger from another type of damage being dealt.
8.5.3f An effect that modifies or prevents a specific type of damage,  other than generic damage, cannot modify or prevent another type of damage.
8.5.4 Destroy
Destroy is a discrete effect. To destroy an object, put it into its owner's graveyard.
8.5.4a Putting an object into the graveyard because of a rule or effect other than destroy is not considered destroying that object.
8.5.5 Discard
Discard is a discrete effect. To discard a card from a player's hand, put it from the player's hand into their graveyard.
8.5.5a Putting an object into the graveyard because of a rule or effect other than discard is not considered discarding that object.
8.5.5b If a player tries to discard a card when there are no cards in their hand, the discard effect fails.
8.5.5c If a card is discarded but a replacement effect modifies the destination to a zone other than the graveyard, the card is still considered discarded.
8.5.6 Draw
Draw is a discrete effect. To draw a card, move the top card of the deck to the player's hand.
8.5.6a Putting an card into the hand because of a rule or effect other than draw is not considered drawing that card.
8.5.6b If a player tries to draw a card when there are no cards in their deck, the draw effect fails.
8.5.6c If a card is drawn but a replacement effect modifies the destination to a zone other than the hand, the card is still considered drawn.
8.5.7 Gain (asset)
Gain is a discrete effect. To gain an asset, the player's or object's assets of the given type is increased by the specified amount.[1.13]
8.5.7a If a living object gains {h}, its life total is increased by the specified amount. If the object does not have the life property, then the gain effect fails.
8.5.7b If a non-turn-player would gain action points, then the gain effect fails.
8.5.8 Gets (numerical property)
Gets is a continuous effect, referred to as modify, and includes all modifications to existing numerical properties. To modify an object, the numerical properties of the object are altered by the specified amount.[2.0.3]
Note: From Cards printed before 2023 have also used the keyword "gains/gain" and "has/have."
8.5.8a If the effect specifies to alter an existing property of the object, but the object does not have that property, it does not give it that property.
8.5.8b If the effect specifies the object has a base numerical property, the object gains that property with the specified base value. If the object already has that numeric property, it sets the base value of that property.
8.5.9 Gets / Is (non-numerical property)
Gets/is is a continuous effect, referred to as modify. To modify an object, the object gains the specified object properties.[2]
Note: From Cards printed before 2023 have also used the keyword "gains/gain" and "has/have."
8.5.9a If the effect specifies the object gains a property, the object gains that property in addition to any existing properties it already has.
8.5.10 Intimidate
Intimidate is a discrete effect and delayed-triggered effect. To intimidate a player, they banish a random card from their hand face-down, and then at the beginning of the end phase, it returns it to their hand.
8.5.10a The player is considered to have been intimidated, even if they did not banish a card from their hand.
8.5.10b If a player is not specified, the intimidate is a targeted effect.[1.8.5]
8.5.10c The triggered effect only returns the cards banished by its ability. If there are two or more temporary-triggered effects created by separate intimidate effects, they each only return the cards banished by their respective intimidate effect.
8.5.11 Look
Look is a discrete effect or continuous effect. To look at a private object, the information about the properties of that object becomes known to the specified player(s).
8.5.11a If a duration is not specified, look is a discrete effect and the player(s) may look at the specified object until the next event in the game occurs. If a duration is specified, look is a continuous effect and the player(s) may look at the specified object for the duration as if it were a private object they owned that is not in a deck..[3.0.3]
8.5.11b If a player looks at a private object, it does not become a public object and it is not put into another zone.
8.5.11c If the object is public, the look effect fails.
8.5.11d If look is a continuous effect and the object is specified by a location, the object the player may look at are determined as a game state action. If the object a player may look at changes due to a rule or effect, the player may not look at that new object until any player would gain priority.
8.5.12 Lose (asset)
Lose is a discrete effect. To lose an asset, the player's or object's assets of the given type is decreased by the specified amount.[1.13]
8.5.12a If a living object lose {h}, its life total is decreased by the specified amount. If the object does not have the life property, then the lose effect fails.
8.5.12b Losing life is not considered as damage being dealt, unless it is the result of a damage effect.[8.5.3] Losing life is not considered as a hit, unless it is the result of damage being dealt by an attack during the damage step of combat.[7.5.5]
8.5.13 Loses (non-numerical property)
Loses is a continuous effect, referred to as modify. To modify an object, the object loses the specified object base properties.[2]
8.5.13a If the effect specifies the object loses a property, and the object does not have that property as a base property, it does not lose that property.
8.5.14 Put (counter)
Put is a discrete effect. To put a counter onto an object, a specified counter begins to exist on the object.
8.5.15 Put / Return (object)
Put/Return is a discrete effect. To put/return an object into/to a zone, move it from its current zone to the specified zone.
8.5.16 Remove (counter)
Remove is a discrete effect. To remove a counter from an object, a specified counter ceases to exist on the object.
8.5.16a If there are two or more of the same counters on an object, it is irrelevant which of those counters is removed.
8.5.16b If two or more counters are removed, they are removed simultaneously in a single event.
8.5.17 Reveal
Reveal is a discrete effect or continuous effect. To reveal a private object, make it public, then make it private again.[3.0.3]
8.5.17a Making an object public because of a rule or effect other than reveal is not considered revealing that object.
8.5.17b If a duration is not specified, reveal is a discrete effect and the object becomes public and then private as consecutive events. If a duration is specified, reveal is a continuous effect and the object remains public for the duration, then it becomes private.
8.5.17c Revealing a private object does not change its position in the deck (if it's in the deck) or put it into another zone.
8.5.17d If the object is public, the reveal effect fails.
8.5.17e If a player is instructed to reveal cards until a condition is met, it is considered to be revealing N cards as a single reveal event, where N is the total number of cards revealed this way. If there are no more cards to reveal and the specified condition is not met, the effect is considered to have failed - effects that trigger from revealing are still triggered.
8.5.18 Roll
Roll is a discrete effect. To roll a die, toss a die to produce a sufficiently random orientation, and then the value of the uppermost die face is used as the result of the roll.
8.5.18a A roll is specified with the number and type of dice to roll. If two or more dice are specified then all dice are rolled and their result is taken simultaneously.
8.5.18b A die used in a roll must have uniquely distinguishable faces, with each face representative of a distinct integer value from one up to, and including, the number of faces on the die; and an equal likelihood that it will land face up.
8.5.19 Search
Search is a discrete effect. To search for a card in a set of zones, the player looks at all the cards in those zones and then chooses a card from them.
8.5.19a If the search specifies any properties of the card that can be chosen, the search is performed on a non-empty zone, and there are no public cards with those properties in that zone; the player may choose to fail the search, even if there is a private card with those properties in that zone.
8.5.19b If the search specifies any properties of the card that can be chosen and there are one or more public cards with those properties in that zone, the player cannot fail the search.
8.5.19c If the search does not specify any properties of the card that can be chosen and the search is performed on a non-empty zone, the player cannot fail the search.
8.5.19d If the zone is empty, the search effect fails.
8.5.20 Shuffle
Shuffle is a discrete effect. To shuffle a zone, put the cards in that zone in a sufficiently random order such that no one knows their order.
8.5.20a If there are no cards in the zone to shuffle, the zone is still considered shuffled.
8.5.20b If the effect specifies to shuffle cards into a zone, put the cards into the zone then shuffle that zone.
8.5.20c If the effect does not specify what zone to shuffle, the player shuffles their own deck.
8.5.21 Name
Name is a discrete effect. To name an object, declare the name property of an object.[2.7]
8.5.21a An object cannot be named using its moniker, the full name of the object must be declared.
8.5.21b Only specified objects that exist and are legal in the game can be named. The player cannot name an object if it does not meet the specifications of the effect, or if the name does not exist on an object that is legal for the game.
8.5.22 Opt
Opt is a discrete effect. To opt N, the player looks at the top N cards of their deck, then puts any number of those cards on the top or bottom of their deck in any order.
8.5.22a If the deck has less than N cards, the player will look at all cards in their deck and put them back in any order.
8.5.22b If the deck has no cards in it, the opt effect fails.
8.5.23 Reload
Reload is an optional discrete effect. To reload a card, if the player's arsenal is empty and they choose to do so, move it from the player's hand to their arsenal face-down.
8.5.23a If the player has two or more arsenal zones, all of those arsenal zones must be empty for the player's arsenal to be considered empty.
8.5.24 Turn
Turn is a discrete effect. To turn a card face-up or face-down, that card becomes public (face-up) or private (face-down) respectively.[3.0.3]
8.5.24a If the card already has the specified visibility, the turn effect fails.
8.5.25 Become / Copy
Become/Copy is a continuous effect. To become/copy a reference, the object loses all existing properties and gets all of the copyable properties of the specified reference.
8.5.25a The copyable properties of a card are determined by the printed properties on that card - properties that are derived from printed properties (abilities, type, supertypes, subtypes) are not duplicated (doubled up) on the object. The copyable properties of a token are determined by the properties that token was created with.
8.5.25b If the reference has any determined parameters from when it was played, activated, or otherwise created, the object also uses those parameters.
8.5.25c After the become/copy effect has been generated, any change to the copyable values of the reference will not change the copied values of the subject.
8.5.25d If an object has become the reference, any other effect that would cause the object to become the same reference fails.
8.5.25e If the reference has a copyable property with a value of *[1.12.3], the become/copy effect defines the value to be same as the corresponding printed property of the original object, or 0 if the object did not have that property.
8.5.26 Negate
Negate is a discrete effect. To negate a layer, the layer is cleared from the stack and it does not resolve. Only layers may be targeted.
8.5.26a If a layer negates itself while resolving, it does not finish resolving.
8.5.27 Repeat
Repeat is a discrete effect. To repeat a process, perform the instructions of that process again.
8.5.27a If no process is specifically stated, the process to repeat refers to the discrete effects preceding the repeat effect in the same resolution ability.
8.5.27b If the instructions would be repeated indefinitely, the repeated process stops when the instructions fail to advance the game state.
8.5.28 Reroll
Reroll is a replacement effect. To reroll dice, those dice are rolled again and their result is taken as if it were the first time they were rolled.
8.5.28a If a die is rerolled, its original result is considered to never have happened.
8.5.28b If an event is modified by two or more reroll effects, those reroll effects occur one by one in the order the event was modified.
8.5.29 Charge
Charge is a discrete effect. To charge a card, move it from the player's hand to their hero's soul.
8.5.29a The player that controls the effect is considered to have charged a card, and the card put into their soul is considered to be charged.
8.5.29b Moving a card to a hero's soul from a rule or effect other than charge is not considered charging.
8.5.30 Distribute
Distribute is a discrete effect. To distribute counters, create the counters if they do not exist, and divide and put them on a specified set of objects.
8.5.31 Pay
Pay is a discrete effect. To pay an asset-cost, the player spends assets of the specified type and amount.[1.14.2]
8.5.31a Pay effects are optional and the affected player can refuse to pay the asset-cost.
8.5.32 Add (defend)
Add is a discrete effect. To add a card to a chain link as a defending card, move it from its current zone onto that chain link as a defending card.[7.0.5]
8.5.32a If an effect would prevent a card from defending on the specified chain link, the defend effect fails and the card is not moved.
8.5.33 Ignore
Ignore is a replacement effect. To ignore an event or part of an event, after it has been completed, it is considered to never have happened.
8.5.33a If an effect is conditional or dependent on the result of an event that is ignored, the ignored part of the event is not considered to have happened.
8.5.33b If there are two or more identical parts of an event and the ignore effect does not specify all of those parts, only the specified parts are ignored.
8.5.33c If an event is modified by both a reroll and ignore effect, the reroll occurs before its results are ignored.
8.5.34 Freeze
Freeze is a continuous effect. To freeze an object, that object cannot be played and its abilities cannot be activated for the duration of the effect.
8.5.34a The player that controls the effect is considered to have frozen an object, and the object is considered to be frozen. The object can be unfrozen by an effect.[8.5.37]
8.5.34b If a freeze effect already applies to an object, a new freeze effect that would apply to that object does not fail.
8.5.35 Gain (control)
Gain is a discrete effect. To gain control of an object, that player is considered to control the object instead of its previous controller.
8.5.35a If the object is equipped, the object will be equipped by the new controller as part of the gain event. If the object cannot be equipped this way, the effect fails.
8.5.36 Transform
Transform is a discrete effect. To transform an object into a permanent, put the object under the permanent.[3.0.14]
8.5.36a The object(s) that are put under the permanent are considered to have transformed into the permanent. The permanent is considered to have transformed from the object(s).
8.5.36b If the specified object to transform into exists but is not a permanent, it first becomes permanent, and then the object is put under it.
8.5.36c If the specified permanent is a token keyword, create that token, then put the transformed objects under it.[8.6]
8.5.36d If the transform involves transforming two or more objects into a permanent, all of those objects must exist and be put under the permanent, otherwise the effect fails and no objects are transformed.
8.5.37 Unfreeze
Unfreeze is a discrete effect. To unfreeze an object, all existing freeze effects no longer apply to that object.[8.5.34]
8.5.37a If an object is unfrozen, all existing freeze effects that apply to an object cease to exist. After the unfreeze event has occurred, the object may be frozen again by new freeze effects.
8.5.37b If unfreeze applies to an object that is not frozen, the effect fails.
8.5.38 Attack
Attack is a targeted discrete effect. To attack a target with an object, the object becomes an attack and chain link on the combat chain.
8.5.38a A layer on the stack that can generate the attack effect is an attack-layer..[1.4.4]
8.5.38b When an attack-layer resolves on the stack, the specified object becomes an attack and chain link on the combat chain and effects that applied to the attack-layer apply to the object as an attack instead.[7.2.3c] If the object does not exist or cannot become an attack, the combat chain closes instead.[7.2.3d]
8.5.38c If an attack-layer is added to the stack, the combat chain opens (if it is closed) and the Layer Step of combat begins.[7.1]
8.5.38d To add an attack-layer onto the stack, a legal attackable target must be declared as the target of the attack.[1.4.5a]
8.5.39 Contract
Contract is a continuous effect. To contract a player, the player is given a specified set of actions to complete.
8.5.39a The contract starts when the contract effect is first generated and ends when the effect ceases to exist. A player is considered to have completed a contract if they have performed the actions specified by the contract while the effect exists. If another player performs the actions specified by the contract, they are not considered to have completed the contract because they are not the player that is contracted.
8.5.39b A contract can be completed any number of times while the effect exists.
8.5.40 Create (card)
Create is a discrete effect. To create a card in a zone, produce the specified card and put it in that zone.
8.5.40a The properties of a created card, specified by name (and pitch if any), are defined by the properties printed on that card.
8.5.40b A card that is created does not exist before being created. The created card does not have to be included in a player's card-pool to be created.
8.5.40c A card is put into the zone as it is created. Effects that trigger from the card entering the zone trigger as though the card was created first, then entered the zone. If an effect applies to the created card as it is created, it applies to it as it enters the zone.
8.5.41 Equip
Equip is a discrete effect. To equip an object, put the object into an equipment or weapon zone as a permanent and it becomes equipped to that zone.
8.5.41a If no zone is specified, the object may be equipped to any zone determined by its subtype.[3][2.10]
8.5.41b An object can only be equipped if it has one of the following subtypes: 1H, 2H, Arms, Chest, Heads, Legs, Off-Hand, or Quiver.
8.5.41c An object can only be equipped to a zone if the zone is empty and it is not already equipped to a zone of the same type. If a rule or effect requires an object to be equipped to two or more zones, all of those zones must be empty.
8.5.41d If the specified object is a token keyword,[8.6] create that token, then equip it. If the token cannot be created or equipped, the effect fails.
8.5.41e If an object cannot be equipped, it does not become a permanent.
8.5.41f If an equipped object ceases to exist, it is no longer equipped to any zones.
8.5.42 Move (counter)
Move is a discrete effect. To move a counter, remove the counter from its current object and put it onto the specified object.[8.5.14][8.5.16]
8.5.42a If no specified counter exists or can be moved, no counters are removed from any object or put onto the specified object.
8.5.43 Awaken
Awaken is a discrete effect. To awaken a double-faced card, its back face becomes its active face.[9.1]
8.5.43a If an object is not a double-sided card, its back face is already active, or its back face can otherwise not be made active, the awaken effect fails.
8.5.44 Pitch
Pitch is a discrete effect. To pitch a card, put it into it's owner's pitch zone and the player gains resources equal to its pitch value.[1.14.3]
8.5.44a If the effect instructs the player to pitch two or more cards, all of those cards must exist and be pitched, otherwise the pitch effect fails.
8.5.45 Clash
Clash is a discrete effect. To clash, the clashing players reveal the top card of their respective decks, and then the player that reveals the card with the greatest {p} value wins the clash.
8.5.45a The {p} values of the revealed cards are compared and the player that revealed the card with the greatest {p} value is considered to have won the clash by revealing that card.
8.5.45b If a player's revealed card does not have the power property, or they do not reveal a card, any other revealed card with the power property is considered to have greater power.[1.8.7]
8.5.45c If none of the players reveals a card with power greater than all other revealed cards, no player is considered to have won the clash.
8.5.45d If the heroes specified by the clash do not exist or there are less than two clashing heroes, the clash effect fails.
8.5.46 Wager
Wager is a continuous effect. To wager a prize with another player, when the chain link of the attack resolves, if the attack has hit, the controller wins the prize, otherwise the other player wins the prize.
8.5.46a After the effect is generated, the attack of the wager and the player that controls the effect are considered to have wagered. When the trigger of a wager effect resolves and the attack has hit, that attack and the player that controls the effect are considered to have won the wager, otherwise the other player is considered to have won the wager.
8.5.46b If the prize is a token, the player that wins creates that token under their control. If there is no prize specified by the effect, the player is simply considered to have won the wager.
8.5.47 Amp
Amp is a continuous effect. To amp N, the next time an event the player controls would deal arcane damage this turn, instead it deals that much arcane damage plus N.
8.5.48 Transcend
Transcend is a discrete effect. To transcend, the transcend source is put into its owner's hand with its back-face active.
8.5.48a The player that controls the effect is considered to have transcended.
8.5.49 Exchange
Exchange is a discrete effect. To exchange objects, the objects swap their respective zone, visibility, and control with each other.
8.5.49a The swap in zone, visibility, and control for both objects happens simultaneously as a move event. If either object cannot complete the move successfully, the effect fails.
8.5.49b If an object is equipped, the object that it will be exchanged with will be equipped as part of the move event. If the object cannot be equipped this way, the effect fails.
8.5.50 Mark
Mark is a discrete effect. To mark a hero, that hero has the marked condition.[9.3]
8.5.51 Retrieve
Retrieve is a discrete effect. To retrieve a card, the player may pay {r} to equip the card.
8.5.51a The card must exist and be able to be equipped for the player to pay {r}. If the player cannot equip the card, they cannot choose to pay {r}.
8.5.52 Return to the Brood
Return to the Brood is a discrete effect. To return to the brood, existing become/copy effects that apply to the player's hero cease to exist.
8.5.53 Give
Give is a discrete effect. To give an object to a player, that player gains control the object.
8.5.53a The player that controls the effect is considered to have given.
8.5.53b If the object is equipped, the object will be equipped by the new controller as part of the give event. If the object cannot be equipped this way, the effect fails.
8.5.54 Steal
Steal is a discrete effect. To steal a card, the player gains control of the object.
8.5.54a The player that controls the effect is considered to have stolen.
8.5.54b If the object is equipped, the object will be equipped by the new controller as part of the steal event. If the object cannot be equipped this way, the effect fails.
8.5.55 Tap
Tap is a discrete effect. To tap a permanent, change the state of the object from untapped to tapped.
8.5.55a If the permanent is already tapped, the effect fails.
8.5.56 Untap
Untap is a discrete effect. To untap a permanent, change the state of the object from tapped to untapped.
8.5.56a If the permanent is already untapped, the effect fails.
8.5.57 The Crowd Cheers / The Crowd Boos
The crowd cheers/boos is a discrete effect. The player that is cheered/booed is considered to be cheered/booed.
8.5.57a If a player is cheered and booed, the are considered both cheered and booed. The effects do not cancel each other out.
8.5.58 Sharpen
Sharpen is a discrete effect and delayed-triggered effect. To sharpen a card, put a +1{p} counter on it, and then at the beginning of the end phase, remove all +1{p} counters from it.
8.5.58a The player is considered to sharpened, and the card is considered to be sharpened.
8.6 Token Keywords
8.6.1 Quicken
A Quicken token is a token with the name "Quicken," the subtype aura, and the triggered-static ability "When you play an attack action card or activate a weapon attack, destroy this then the attack gains go again."
8.6.2 Seismic Surge
A Seismic Surge token is a token with the name "Seismic Surge," the subtype aura, and the triggered-static ability "At the beginning of your action phase, destroy this then the next Guardian attack action card you play this turn costs {r} less to play."
8.6.3 Runechant
A Runechant token is a token with the name "Runechant," the subtype aura, and the triggered-static ability "When you play an attack action card or activate a weapon attack, destroy this and deal 1 arcane damage to target opposing hero."
8.6.4 Copper
A Copper token is a token with the name "Copper," the subtype item, and the activated ability "Action ‐- {r}{r}{r}{r}, destroy this: Draw a card. Go again."
8.6.5 Zen State
A Zen State token is a token with the name "Zen State," the supertype ninja, the subtype aura, and the static abilities "This enters the arena with 1 balance counter on it. At the beginning of your action phase, destroy this unless you remove a balance counter from it." and "If you would be dealt damage, prevent 1 damage of that damage."
8.6.6 Blasmophet, the Soul Harvester
A Blasmophet, the Soul Harvester token is a token with the name "Blasmophet, the Soul Harvester," the supertype shadow, the subtypes demon and ally, a power of 6{p}, a life of 6{h}, the activated ability "Once per Turn Action -- 0: Attack," and the triggered-static ability "Whenever this attacks, you may banish a Shadow card from your hand. If you do, you may banish a card from the defending hero's soul."
8.6.7 Soul Shackle
A Soul Shackle token is a token with the name "Soul Shackle," the subtype aura, and the triggered-static ability "At the beginning of your action phase, banish the top card of your deck."
8.6.8 Spectral Shield
A Spectral Shield token is a token with the name "Spectral Shield," the supertype illusionist, the subtype aura, and the static ability "Ward 1."
8.6.9 Ursur, the Soul Reaper
A Ursur, the Soul Reaper token is a token with the name "Ursur, the Soul Reaper," the supertype shadow, the subtypes demon and ally, a power of 6{p}, a life of 6{h}, the activated ability "Once per Turn Action -- 0: Attack," and the static ability "If this is attacking a hero with 1 or more cards in their soul, the attack gets go again."
8.6.10 Frostbite
A Frostbite token is a token with the name "Frostbite," the supertype elemental, the subtype aura, the static ability "Cards and abilities cost you an additional {r} to play or activate." and the triggered-static ability "At the beginning of your end phase or when you play a card or activate an ability, destroy this."
8.6.11 Embodiment of Earth
An Embodiment of Earth token is a token with the name "Embodiment of Earth," the supertype elemental, the subtype aura, the static ability "Non-attack action cards you control have +1{d} while defending." and the triggered-static ability "At the beginning of your action phase, destroy this."
8.6.12 Embodiment of Lightning
An Embodiment of Lightning token is a token with the name "Embodiment of Lightning," the supertype elemental, the subtype aura, and the triggered-static ability "When you play an attack action card, destroy this and the attack gains go again."
8.6.13 Silver
A Silver token is a token with the name "Silver," the subtype item, and the activated ability "Action ‐- {r}{r}{r}, destroy this: Draw a card. Go again."
8.6.14 Ash
An Ash token is a token with the name "Ash," the supertypes draconic and illusionist, the subtype ash, and the static ability "Material - While this is under a permanent, that object has phantasm."
8.6.15 Aether Ashwing
An Aether Ashwing token is a token with the name "Aether Ashwing," the supertypes draconic and illusionist, the subtypes dragon and ally, a power of 1{p}, a life of 1{h}, and the static ability "Arcane Barrier 1."
8.6.16 Gold
A Gold token is a token with the name "Gold," the subtype item, and the activated ability "Action ‐- {r}{r}, destroy this: Draw a card. Go again."
8.6.17 Ponder
A Ponder token is a token with the name "Ponder," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the beginning of your end phase, destroy this and draw a card."
8.6.18 Spellbane Aegis
A Spellbane Aegis token is a token with the name "Spellbane Aegis," the subtype aura, and the static ability "Spellvoid 1."
8.6.19 Bloodrot Pox
A Bloodrot Pox token is a token with the name "Bloodrot Pox," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the beginning of your end phase, destroy this, then it deals 2 damage to you unless you pay {r}{r}{r}."
8.6.20 Frailty
A Frailty token is a token with the name "Frailty," the subtype aura, the static ability "Your attack action cards played from arsenal and weapon attacks have -1{p}," and the triggered ability "At the beginning of your end phase, destroy this."
8.6.21 Inertia
A Inertia token is a token with the name "Inertia," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the beginning of your end phase, destroy this, then put all cards from your hand and arsenal on the bottom of your deck."
8.6.22 Courage
A Courage token is a token with the name "Courage," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "When you play an attack action card or activate a weapon attack, destroy this and the attack gets +1{p}."
8.6.23 Eloquence
An Eloquence token is a token with the name "Eloquence," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "When you play a non-attack action card, destroy this and the card gets go again."
8.6.24 Nasreth, the Soul Harrower
A Nasreth, the Soul Harrower token is a token with the name "Nasreth, the Soul Harrower," the supertype shadow, the subtypes demon and ally, a power of 6{p}, a life of 6{h}, the activated ability "Once per Turn Action -- 0: Attack," and the triggered ability "When this hits a hero, banish a card from their soul. If a Light card is banished this way, gain 1{h}."
8.6.25 Hyper Driver
A Hyper Driver token is a token with the name "Hyper Driver," the subtype item, the triggered ability "When this has no steam counters, destroy it," and the triggered ability "Once per turn, when you boost a card, remove a steam counter from this and gain {r}."
8.6.26 Might
A Might token is a token with the name "Might," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the start of your turn, destroy this, then your next attack this turn gets +1{p}."
8.6.27 Vigor
A Vigor token is a token with the name "Vigor," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the start of your turn, destroy this, then gain {r}."
8.6.28 Agility
An Agility token is a token with the name "Agility," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the start of your turn, destroy this, then your next attack this turn gets go again."
8.6.29 Cintari Sellsword
A Cintari Sellsword token is a token with the name "Cintari Sellsword," the supertype warrior, the subtypes mercenary and ally, a power of 3{p}, a life of 2{h}, the activated ability "Once per Turn Action -- {r}: Attack. Go again," and the static ability "This can only attack if you've attacked with a weapon this turn."
8.6.30 Graphene Chelicera
A Graphene Chelicera token is a token with the name "Graphene Chelicera," the supertype Assassin, the type Weapon, the subtypes Dagger and (1H), a power of 1{p}, the activated ability "Once per Turn Action -- {r}: Attack," and the triggered ability "When this attacks a marked hero, the attack gets go again."
8.6.31 Fealty
A Fealty token is a token with the name "Fealty," the supertype Draconic, the subtype aura, the activated ability "Instant -- Destroy this: The next card you play this turn is Draconic." and the triggered ability "At the beginning of your end phase, if you haven't created a Fealty token or played a Draconic card this turn, destroy this."
8.6.32 Golden Cog
A Golden Cog token is a token with the name "Golden Cog," the supertype Mechanologist, the subtypes cog and item, and the static abilities Crank and "This enters the arena with a steam counter. At the start of your turn, destroy this unless you remove a steam counter from it."
8.6.33 Goldkiss Rum
A Goldkiss Rum token is a token with the name "Goldkiss Rum," the subtype item, and the activated ability "Instant -- {t} your hero, destroy this: Your next action this turn gets go again. Your hero can't {u} this turn unless they're a Pirate."
8.6.34 Bait
A Bait token is a token with the name "Bait," the subtype aura, the static ability "You can’t play or activate cards you own." and the activated abilitoes "Action -- Destroy this when the chain link resolves: Attack" and "Once per Turn Attack Reaction -- 0: This gets +1{p} and go again."
8.6.35 Confidence
A Confidence token is a token with the name "Confidence," the subtype aura, and the triggered ability "At the start of your turn, destroy this, then the next attack action card you play this turn can’t be defended by more than 2 non-block cards."
8.6.36 Toughness
A Toughness token is a token with the name "Toughness," the subtype aura, and the activated ability "At the start of your opponent’s turn, destroy this, then the next action card you defend with this turn gets +1{d} this chain link."
8.6.37 Sigil of Fate
A Sigil of Fate token is a token with the name "Sigil of Fate," the supertype Wizard, the subtype aura, the triggered-static ability "When this leaves the arena, opt 1." and the triggered-static "At the beginning of your action phase, destroy this."
9 Additional Rules
9.0 General
9.1 Double-Faced Cards
9.1.1 A double-faced card is a card with two sets of properties - each set printed as a separate face on the card.
9.1.2 Each face of a double-faced card has its own set of printed properties.
9.1.2a If a player may look at a double-faced card, they may look at both faces of the card.
9.1.2b If an effect instructs a player to name a card,[8.5.21] they may name one side of a double-faced card, but not both.
9.1.2c If an effect applies to a double-faced card, it continues to apply to the card even if its properties are defined by a different face, as long as it does not cease to exist between changing properties.
Example: Oasis Respite has the text "Prevent the next 4 damage that would be dealt to target hero this turn by a source of your choice." If a flip-card card with its front-face active is chosen as the source, then the flip-card resolves, enters the arena, and its back-face becomes active, it is still subjected to Oasis Respite's effect.
9.1.3 A flip-card is a double-faced card that has a front-face and a back-face, with one of the following printed subtypes on its front-face: figment, invocation, or construct. Only one face of a flip-card is active at any given point. The properties of a flip-card are defined by its active face. The types of its front-face determines if it is a hero-, token-, deck-, or arena-card.[4.2]
9.1.3a If a flip-card is outside the game, its front-face is active.
9.1.3b If a flip-card is inside the game, its front-face is active until a rule or effect would make its back-face active. If the card would then become a new card, its front-face is active again.[3.0.9]
Example: Construct Nitro Mechanoid is the front-face of a flip-card. When it resolves on the stack, its Construct subtype rules that it enters the arena with its back face active, turning it into Nitro Mechanoid. If it is destroyed and moves to the graveyard, it becomes a Construct Nitro Mechanoid again because its front-face is active.
9.1.4 A twin-card is a double-faced card that has two faces. One or both faces of a twin-card may be active at any given point. The properties of a twin-card are defined by its active face(s). The combination of the types of both its faces determines if it is a hero-, token-, deck-, or arena-card.[4.2]
9.1.4a If a twin-card is outside the arena and not on the stack, both of its faces are active.
Example: Levia, Redeemed // Blasmophet, Levia Consumed is a twin-card with the text "Action -- Turn all cards in your banished zone face-down: Transform into Levia, Redeemed. Activate this ability only while this is in your inventory and you have 13 or more cards with blood debt in your banished zone." and "While this is in your inventory, when blood debt reduces your {h} to 13, you may transform into Blasmophet, Levia Consumed." respectively. While this card is in a player's inventory, both of these abilities are functional because the card as a whole has both sets of properties from both its faces.
9.1.4b If a twin-card is in the arena or on the stack, only one of its faces is active. Its active face is determined by the player that played it, or by the effect that put it into the arena or on the stack.
9.1.5 A transcend-card is a double-faced card that has a front-face and a back-face, with the front-face that has an ability that generates the transcend effect.[8.5.48] Only one face of a transcend-card is active at any given point. The properties of a transcend-card are defined by its active face. The types of its front-face determines if it is a deck- or arena-card.[4.2]
9.1.5a If a transcend-card is outside the game, its front-face is active.
9.1.5b If a transcend-card is inside the game, its front-face is active until it transcends and makes its back-face active. Its back-face remains active even if it would become a new object.[3.0.9]
Example: Stir the Pot is the front-face of a transcend-card. When it resolves, and transcends, its Inner Chi back-face becomes the active face and it is put into its owner's hand. For the remainder of the game, it will continue to be Inner Chi, whether it is pitched, discarded, banished, etc.
9.2 Split-Cards
9.2.1 A split-card is a card with two names, typeboxes, and textboxes - each printed on different sides of the card.
9.2.2 A split-card is considered a single card with all the properties of both sides, except when put onto the stack.[9.2.3]
Example: Comet Storm||Shock is a single card with two names ("Comet Storm" and "Shock"), two supertypes (Lightning and Wizard), two types (Instant and Action), and two sets of abilities.
9.2.2a A split-card can only be included in a player's card-pool if the supertypes of both sides are a subset of their hero's supertypes.[1.1.3]
Example: A player can only include Comet Storm||Shock if their hero has the Lightning and Wizard supertypes.
9.2.2b If an effect instructs a player to name a card,[8.5.21] they may name one of the two split-card names, but not both.
Example: Chains of Eminence has the text "When this enters the arena, name a card. The named card can't be pitched, played, or defend while this is in the arena." If the named card is "Shock", the split-card Regrowth||Shock cannot be pitched, played as Shock or Regrowth||Shock, or defend; but it can be played as Regrowth.
9.2.2c A card has the same name as a split-card if it has all the names of that split-card.
Example: Bonds of Agony has the text "When this hits a hero, look at their hand and choose a card. Search their hand, deck, and graveyard and banish up to 3 cards with the same name as the chosen card." If a Null||Shock is the choosen card, only cards that have both names Null and Shock can be banished this way. 
9.2.3 When a split-card is put onto the stack, the player that puts it there chooses one of its two sides.[5.1.2c] For the remainder of its existence, it is considered to have only the name, typebox, and textbox of the chosen side. The other side's name, typebox, and textbox are considered to not exist.
Example: Comet Storm||Shock is a split card. If the player chooses the left side, the card only has the name Comet Storm, the typebox "Wizard Action," and textbox "Deal 5 arcane damage to any target." If the player chooses the right side, the card only has the name Shock, the typebox "Lightning Instant," and textbox "Deal 1 arcane damage to any target."
9.3 Marked
9.3.1 Marked is a special condition that a hero may have.
9.3.2 A hero is marked if an effect causes them to be marked[8.5.50]
9.3.2a If an effect would cause a marked hero to become marked, they continue to be marked.
9.3.2b A marked hero continues to be marked until they are hit by a source controlled by an opponent or they cease to exist.
9.3.3 When a marked hero is hit by a source controlled by an opponent,[7.5.5] the marked condition of that hero is removed as part of the hit event. The removal of the marked condition is not a game state-process or a triggered effect.
9.4 Living Legend
9.4.1 Living legend is a status that a hero may have.
9.4.2 A hero is a living legend hero if it is listed as such on the official Flesh and Blood living legend resource page https://fabtcg.com/living-legend/.